The KwaZulu-Natal Social Development Department will on Monday launch a provincial social workers’ forum in Richards Bay. Tuesday is also International Social Workers’ Day. The day has been set aside to show appreciation for the work of social workers around the world. In a statement, the Department of Social Development says the aim of the forum is to empower social workers to engage in peer forums to access better support and continuous professional development. It also wants to improve the quality of supervision of social service practitioners. This year’s theme for International Commemoration of Social Workers’ Day, is co-building a new eco-world, leaving no one. World Social Work Day This year’s World Social Work Day will be celebrated under the theme Co-building a New Eco-Social World: Leaving No One Behind. Don’t forget to register for one of the #WSWD2022 events!
The theme of this year Co-building a #newecosocialworld: Leaving No One Behind coincides with the name of the #PeoplesSummit that takes place 29Jun-2Jul
Join the #newecosocialworl movement
Send your contribution 31 March pic.twitter.com/24TbMrAhlY — New ecosocial world: Leave no one behind (@ecosocialworld) March 13, 2022  According to the International Association Of Schools Of Social Work (IASSW), the day will be “a highlight opportunity for the social work profession to engage all social work networks and the community they work within to make contributions to the values and principles which enable all people to have their dignity respected through shared futures.” In a statement, IASSW President Annamaria Campanini says: “The Summit emerging from the pandemic and the climate crisis will bring together individuals and organisations to bring together globally shared values for a new social world that will leave no one behind.” The Summit will be an opportunity for individuals and organisations to advance their ideas and provide a platform for engagement across different cultures. All contributions will shape the global values declaration for a new eco-social world,” adds Campanini. -Additional reporting by SABC News 