SABC News’ Tshepiso Moche reports on related tech developments in South Africa and globally. In this edition, he looks at South Africa’s first rural online grocery store. KwaZulu-Natal-born Siyanda Mthethwa has developed South Africa’s first rural online grocery store and delivery service app. Rural areas are often overlooked when innovations such as online grocery stores and e-hailing apps are developed amongst other innovations. According to Mthethwa, the Kuloola (made easy) app allows community members in rural areas to place their grocery orders through easy and simple methods. The Kuloola delivery team delivers groceries to households, churches and tuckshops. Other methods of placing orders include sending an SMS, WhatsApp, or by a phone call. According to data service ecommerceDB, e-Commerce user growth is expected to increase by 50 percent by 2025. E-Commerce is defined as card spend activity on an online platform where businesses and individuals can buy and sell goods and services. But just like any entrepreneur, Mthethwa had his fair share of challenges and setbacks. The audio below looks at the challenges of developing online grocery stores:  Since the beginning of lockdown in 2020, South Africa has seen an increase in the e-Commerce sector. In a Deloitte report published in 2021, the South African e-Commerce market was estimated to be US$3bn in net sales in 2019 and growing by a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 13% on average (2019-24). The online grocery store app founder says Kuloola currently employs about 20 people, of which the majority of them are females. The audio below, talks about areas that are covered by Kuloola:  South Africa is the 41st largest market for e-Commerce with a revenue of US$5 billion in 2021, placing it ahead of Iraq and behind the Philippines. Currently, the biggest player in the South African e-Commerce market is Takealot followed by Superbalist and Woolworths. Mthethwa says he’s aware that some people in rural areas might find it difficult to use the app. He says they have added other methods of placing orders. Unlike other online delivery apps in urban areas, Kuloola affords its users an opportunity to use methods like sending a please call me to place an order. In the audio below, the app founder talks about placing orders:  Some of the most selling items include hand washing powder, maize meal, cooking oil and meat. Their delivery fee ranges from as little as R20 to up to R100 depending on the distance and the amount of ordered items. Groceries are delivered within 24 hours. One of the app users took to Facebook to thank the Kuloola delivery team for their efficient service. Nyamo Ngema-Ndwandwe from Eshowe says, “Your people are very fast. I saw that after placing my bread and refreshments order today.”