African National Congress (ANC) National Executive Committee (NEC) member, Cassel Mathale, says all members must take collective responsibility for the position the party finds itself in. Mathale says party members must rally behind the leadership of ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa. He was speaking at the special official provincial funeral of the ANC veteran, Richard “Pharephare” Mothupi. The 84-year-old freedom fighter was laid to arrest at Ga-Mamaila in Sekgosese in Limpopo on Saturday. The late ANC veteran, Richard Mothelo” PharePhare” Mothupi, received a special official provincial funeral category two. Mothupi, who died last week after a long illness, served as a member of parliament for eleven years. He was exiled in 1960 and returned to the country in the 80s. Addressing mourners, Mathale says ANC members must take collective responsibility for the good and bad things happening within the party. “Let’s work together in honour of Ntate Pharephare. Let’s rally president Ramaphosa and his collective I know some of you are not happy because of this and that’s where there is a weakness let’s raise with the leadership constructively and stop individualism. ANC issues as if they belong to so and so not a collective.” Limpopo Premier, Stan Mathabatha has also delivered a eulogy at the funeral. He says Mothupi never fought for a position in government. “What is happening to us is not surprising we knew it was going to happen revolutionary theory tell us the most important thing how do we manage in a capitalist transgression we are going to get people who are corrupt comrade Mothupi may be gone but his legacy will remain.” ANC Veterans League Jacob Marule says Mothupi was against corruption. He says corrupt leaders must be arrested. “The ANC veterans league in Limpopo will be sponsoring a motion that the position of the national chairperson of the ANC must be occupied by those who served in the ANC veterans league if we are to honour PharePhare we must demand that law enforcement agencies must perpetrators of corruption.” Meanwhile, a memorial service for Professor Lilian Tendani Muofhe has been held at the University of Venda in Thohoyandou. Professor Muofhe was the widow of the late pastor, Tshifhiwa Muofhe, who was killed in his cell after being detained for political reasons along with the other three Lutheran pastors, in 1981.