One of the biggest industrial hubs in the capital city of Tshwane, Rosslyn, has been under severe strain due to road congestion. Congestion due to poor roads in the Rosslyn area started increasing after a residential boom in recent years. The Gauteng government now plans to change this with a massive road construction project as part of the provincial government’s commitment to support the industry’s multibillion-rand developments to boost economic recovery and growth. One of the many frustrated residents and businessmen in Rosslyn says navigating the roads in this area has been a nightmare and threat to many lives. “Lack of proper roads and lack of maintenance on our roads including traffic lights, has had some serious negative challenges on our lives as residents. Firstly we have had more than one accident happening every week. Those challenges have seriously impacted our lives and our businesses. Customers can’t access our products and we can’t deliver products to the market,” says Modisaemang Manthe, Rosslyn Gardens resident. Construction project His frustrations will soon be over. This as the Gauteng government visited the area in preparation for a major construction project to upgrade the roads. The constructions hope to change the face of Rosslyn and turn it into a world-class industrial area with all necessary amenities like big malls, hospitals and luxury apartments. “The project that we talking about in this area is the Tshwane automotive city, which incorporates the centre of Rosslyn. It goes up to the boundary of Soshanguve, up to the boundary of Garankuwa. This project aims to focus on South Africa specifically Tshwane as the automotive capital for Africa,” says Brendan Falkson, Rosslyn Hub CEO. Gauteng Transport MEC Jacob Mamabolo says the road will connect Orchards, Soshanguve and Rosslyn. “We will be bringing a road, the estimated value shouldn’t be more than R600-million when we are done with the total construction of the road. Road K217 is the name of the road that we will be building and constructing,” says Mamabolo. Manthe says if the promises materialise, many of their businesses will be able to grow. “It will seriously benefit our businesses, especially small businesses even large businesses. Rosslyn is an industrial zone and no business irrespective of size can afford poor road infrastructure,” says Manthe. Job creation Addressing residents in the area, Gauteng Premier David Makhura says this project forms part of plans to make Tshwane the automotive capital of South Africa, with the main aim of driving aggressive economic growth and job creation in the country. “It will immediately unlock more than R3-billion investment in this area. We need local contractors who can deliver. I don’t want those who stop and hijack projects. Those who kill others,” says Makhura. Impact Studies will soon be completed and potential contractors can then bid for the tender. Construction is scheduled to start in about two years from now.