Farmworkers from Malangeni in Umzinto on the KwaZulu-Natal South Coast say they have been hesitant to take the COVID-19 vaccine due to myths. Non-Government Organisation, BroadReach Health Development is working with the provincial Department of Health to address these issues in some of the province’s hardest to reach areas. KwaZulu-Natal currently has over 2 700 active COVID-19 cases. It is second to Gauteng which has over 4 000 active cases and not only to increase awareness and vaccines for COVID-19 but also to screen and test for HIV and TB. These farmworkers say they are happy that health services have been brought closer to where they work and live. “Sometimes we don’t get a chance to go to the clinic. I didn’t have the courage to go to vaccinate. Since vaccination site hate has been brought closer, then I decided to vaccinate,” a farmworker says. “As farmworkers, we didn’t have time to go to vaccinate, as we are working,” another farmworker explains. “I did go to vaccinate because I was discouraged by messages that are circulating on social media, today I took a decision to go and get a jab because I don’t know whether I will lose a job if I do not vaccinate,” a farmworker elaborates. So far, over 21 000 people have been vaccinated by the programme in just three months. Broadreach director in the Ugu District, Ntokozo Mkhize says speaking to communities and debunking fake news is easing hesitancy. “We no longer have a huge challenge around vaccine hesitancy, but what is coming out clearly is the fact that the more you give information, the more you explain as to what are the benefits of vaccinating to you as an individual. To your family and to your colleagues at work, people are starting to come in for vaccination, some people have fear of the unknown, of course, there were issues of myths like this will cause deaths but with more education,  people are coming forward.” Four districts are being prioritised due to low vaccination rates coupled with high rates of HIV, TB and other comorbidities. These are Ugu and King Cetshwayo in KwaZulu-Natal and Gert Sibande and Nkangala in Mpumalanga. Mkhize says that COVID-19 vaccination rates in these areas were below 25%. “We are working in an integrated approach, so we collaborate with DOH in terms of integrating HIV and AIDS services TB screening services, and COVID, Today there are different work stations one screening for TB and HIV, putting those who are positive on treatment, we are also having sites and slots for screening for Covid then providing vaccination as required by these clients,” Mkhize explains. Mkhize is optimistic that taking healthcare services to communities will encourage more people to be vaccinated.