Police Minister Bheki Cele says the shooting incident which occurred outside the home of Western Cape High Court Deputy Judge President Patricia Goliath is being investigated. This comes after the Hawks confirmed the shooting. One of the security guards posted outside Goliath’s home was reportedly shot in the hand by two assailants. Allegations of a plot to assassinate Goliath emerged in 2020 following a spat within the judiciary of the Western Cape High Court. The allegations were alleged to have been made by a prisoner serving a sentence for high-profile assassinations in KwaZulu-Natal. Cele was speaking during a visit to Heideveld in Cape Town. He says, “Yes, it was immediately reported to me that it happened. The investigations are going on. I’m sure we’ll be making a statement very, very soon.” Street Izimbizo Walking through the neighbourhood of Heideveld and Manenberg, Cele and the SAPS management in the province listened to some of the grievances raised by community members while others offered practical suggestions on how to improve their safety through amongst other things, partnering with the police. Cele assured the residents that the current increased police presence will remain in place until the SAPS is satisfied that safety and stability have been restored to the area. Additional SAPS officers have been deployed to Manenberg as force multipliers and will add to the Anti-Gang Unit (AGU) members that are stationed in the area, focusing on gang-related crimes. “Police are also making inroads in the daily operations focusing on this area, they have so far arrested over 40 people since the start of the weekend. A total of 23 of these arrests are for murder. I also call on this community and the police to continue to improve their working relations. Taking action together will ensure the space for gangs and their criminal ways will be squeezed out and with more boots on the ground, these streets will once again be safe for children to play on,” Cele concluded. [READ]
Statement on the #CrimePrevention Street Izimbizo hosted by Police Ministry in Khayelitsha, Manenberg and Heideveld.
https://t.co/S1liW1VWns pic.twitter.com/aqhqWukrWn — Lirandzu Themba (@LirandzuThemba) March 18, 2022  #PoliceMinistry community engagements led by the Police Minister, Gen #BhekiCele, took place against the backdrop of multiple murders in the Endlovini informal settlement, where five people were gunned down in the area on Monday. TMhttps://t.co/9XRtv0R9JT pic.twitter.com/nF74ciCWkk — SA Police Service  (@SAPoliceService) March 18, 2022 