The Pan Africanist Congress (PAC) says uniting African people will be the best honour for the victims of the Sharpeville Massacre. The PAC and AZAPO jointly commemorated the fallen heroes of Sharpeville Day, in the Vaal on Monday. In the video below, families of the Uitenhage massacre victims remember their lost ones:  It all started with a visit to the graves of the 69 victims of that fateful day followed by a rally at the local Dlomo Dam. PAC President Mzwanele Nyhontso says African people need to unite for the sake of the victims of the Sharpeville Massacre. “Let us make a pledge to unite today on the basis of blood that flowed in Sharpeville on March 1960. Let us unite and make our enemies who continue to keep us apart to be greatest losers. Let African people unite, forward to a united states of Africa and forward to a united PAC.” Meanwhile, the Foundation for Human Rights says that celebrating Human Rights Day remained a challenge in South Africa, as vulnerable groups still remain without rights. Poor communities still denied the right to get basic services: Abahlali baseMjondolo  The foundation’s programme manager Sarah Motha says their research has found that South Africa still has a high level of intolerance. “Though it’s part of the government policy that human rights education must be part of the school curriculum, but we’re seeing less and less results of people being able to tolerate each other. Certainly, there’s a high level of intolerance, based on our report that we recently finalised and discovered that indeed, discrimination is alive in this country.” DA marks Human Rights Day Democratic Alliance leader John Steenhuisen marked Human Rights Day by declaring war on poverty in South Africa. He says it’s no use to celebrate Human Rights Day when millions of people still live below the poverty line. Steenhuisen was marking the public holiday at Gemsbokspruit near Kwa-Mhlanga in Mpumalanga. Steenhuisen started his journey in Mpumalanga by conducting a door-to-door campaign. He wanted to acquaint himself with some of the problems the locals face. He says it’s about time that the needs of the people are put first, beyond those of certain individuals. The DA leader says the ANC government must wake up to the fact that poverty is the real enemy of South Africans.