The family of Tshegofatso Pule say they’re hoping justice will be served in today’s judgement at the High Court in Johannesburg. Pule was eight months pregnant when she was murdered in June 2020. Acting Judge Stuart Wilson will deliver his verdict on whether Shoba is guilty or not of the murder of Tshegofatso Pule. It’s almost two years since Pule was brutally murdered. Her body was found hanging from a tree in Durban Deep, west of of the city. Her boyfriend, Ntuthuko Shoba, is accused of being the mastermind behind the 28-year-old’s murder. Shoba is also facing charges of conspiracy to murder, as well as defeating the ends of justice. Convicted murderer Muzi Malepane admitted to killing Pule, however he said it was on Shoba’s instructions. Shoba, however, refuted Malepane’s claims. After four weeks of testimonies, Pule’s family – eager for the verdict to be delivered – say they are emotionally and physically drained by the case. Pule’s uncle, Tumisang Katake says, “It has been a long and tiring journey. Psychologically, as well as emotionally, it was taxing. I think we are hoping that at the end of the day justice would have been served. The only way for justice to be served is for the family to hear the pronouncement of a guilty verdict. Then we will be able to rest emotionally and psychologically.” Defense Lawyer, Norman Makhubela, poked holes in the state’s investigation, and labeled Malepane an unreliable witness. “There is a probability that the disputed phone could have been controlled by another number. If Shoba was in contact with Malepane on the other number, why would he need the other number? There is no evidence to suggest that the disputed number gave instructions to carry out the plot. Police didn’t follow up on the other two numbers that sent Pule text, threatening and setting up interview. The contract is to validate his story. Malepane is a great script writer.” The state, however, stood firm on its evidence, relying on three elements: Muzi Malepane’s testimony, tracker reports and cellphone evidence. State prosecutor, Faghre Mohammed, said Shoba distanced himself from a disputed number that Malepane said he used to call Shoba prior to Pule’s murder. However, he demonstrated to the court that the disputed number was in the same vicinity as the registered number, on numerous occasions. “Malepane couldn’t make contact on the disputed phone. He switches to registered phone number. This pattern was seen over a period of time. Whether Shoba had anything to do with the invitation of the meeting, it was clear that Shoba had control of the disputed number and the registered number. But Shoba had no control of Malepane. The court should accept the state’s case as conclusive beyond reasonable doubt.” Tshegofatso Pule Murder | Convicted killer Muzi Malepane admits to being paid R70 000 for the hit:  In his last bid to prove his innocence, Shoba made an application to the court for the CCTV footage of the last moments Pule was alive, to be viewed. The showing of the footage angered the Pule family. Katake said the entire court process had been draining for the family. “We have been drained emotionally and physically by this case. Particularly by the stance Shoba had pulled throughout the court proceedings with one application after another. The last straw was the application for the video footage, where we had to go through the experience of watching the last moments of Tshegofatso when she was still alive.” Acting Judge Stuart Wilson is expected to deliver his verdict. Closing arguments in Tshegofatso Pule murder case: