The African Transformation Movement (ATM) has expressed its disappointment in the appointment of Raymond Zondo as the country’s new Chief Justice – saying it expected that Justice Mandisa Maya would get the position. Zondo replaces retired Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng. President Cyril Ramaphosa announced the appointment on Thursday, adding that Justice Maya will be nominated for the position of Deputy Chief Justice. ATM’s Spokesperson, Sibusiso Mncwabe explains, “We are very much disappointed at the decision of the president. We view this as a serious assault on the struggles of women in this country. The opportunity presented itself for the state president to elect the first female justice of the republic, not just because she is a woman, but because she qualifies and has all the requirements for the position. It is clear to the mind of the president that women are not ready in this country to lead any critical position, which is much different from our view and the majority of the people, who are disappointed over Maya.” Meanwhile, Congress of the People (COPE) has described President Ramaphosa’s decision to appoint Zondo as a sober decision. The party’s spokesperson, Dennis Bloem says Zondo has shown his commitment to the rule of law and his fearlessness and lack of favour in his dispensing of justice. While most parties welcomed the announcement of the Deputy Chief Justice, it was rejected by the EFF. The party says the appointment is short-sighted and factional. EFF spokesperson Leigh-Ann Mathys says under Zondo, the Constitutional Court will now be used to fight political opponents. “Zondo has been appointed despite having the most compromised interview … To descending into the political arena when he’s expected to exercise restraint.”  Reform of JSC Judicial watchdog group, Judges Matter, has outlined its expectations for the new Chief Justice – saying reform of the Judicial Service Commission (JSC) is long overdue. Co-ordinator of the Judges Matter Campaign Alison Tilley explains, “I think the reform of the JSC is overdue and some of the reforms can be put in place by the new Chief Justice and there can be a discussion about how the JSC does its work and what criteria is needed going forward. There are longer-term issues which would need legislative and constitutional change, but those are things that can be done in the longer term.” Professor Sipho Seepe weighs in on Justice Zondo’s appointment:  VIDEO: President Ramaphosa appoints Raymond Zondo as Chief Justice: Prof William Gumede