Public Protector Advocate Busisiwe Mkhwebane says there will be a moratorium on her suspension until the matter is ventilated in court. Two weeks ago, Mkhwebane was slapped with a Notice of Intention to Suspend by President Cyril Ramaphosa asking her to give reasons why he should not suspend her. Mkhwebane has argued the President can’t suspend her, as he is conflicted. Mkhwebane briefed the media in Pretoria during the release of several investigation reports. Mkhwebane says the President has agreed to give her a reprieve while she heads to court. “Finally, the President’s legal team has agreed that lest pend a response to the intention to suspend until such time that the matter is ventilated in court. We will be dealing with that; they’ve agreed to timelines on how we are going to process the matter and there will be a moratorium on the suspension for now.” Mkhwebane argues that the President can’t suspend her because she says he is conflicted. “There are several investigations which are before the Public Protector, the leak of the discussion in the NEC meeting and the other matter relating to the Zimbabwe trip and again we received another complaint relating to what transpires at the JSC about the appointment of the chief justice so we are raising those issues that they should be taken into consideration but also we raised a number of issues with the speaker on the process she followed in referring the matter to the President.” Mkhwebane expects the matter to be heard end of April The matter is likely to be heard in court at the end of April. “I think we’ll be filing our papers tomorrow because there’s an agreement between our legal teams on changing leadings and documents, but it will depend on whether the Judge President will decide on those timelines. We are proposing by the 25th/ 26th of April, the matter will be heard in court.” Meanwhile, Parliament has resolved to go ahead with her impeachment despite confirmation that she’s filed an application to the Constitutional Court for the rescission of its earlier judgment on the matter.