President Cyril Ramaphosa has cautioned South Africans that the ongoing conflict in Ukraine could reverse the progress made by the South African government in improving services. Ramaphosa says while government has made gains, global events often erode these efforts. During his delivery of the keynote address at the official commemoration of Human Rights Day in Koster in the North West, Ramaphosa said the conflict was affecting South Africa’s food and oil prices. “We see a number of these gains being eroded. We are moving backwards, this is not only because of COVID-19 but also global events. Right now there is a huge war raging in Ukraine and Russia and the gains we have been making are going to be reversed because our fuel and food prices are going up. We are trying to determine ways to improve the country but the war in Ukraine is setting us back. Instead of moving forward, we are finding that we are moving back.  These are external factors but there are also internal factors which are within our control. Internal factors.”  South Africans warned of higher cost of living going forward Economists are warning South Africans to brace themselves for an even higher cost of living going forward. It’s expected that Statistics South Africa will announce a higher inflation rate on the back of increasing oil, fuel and food prices. The Reserve Bank is also expected to announce another interest rate hike on Thursday. Economist, Isaac Matshego says the repo rate is widely expected to increase by 25 basis points. He says fuel prices will hit record highs due to the Ukraine invasion by Russia. “We expect the inflation rates to increase slightly to 5.9% from 5.7% and the main drivers will be high fuel prices and insurance. We are likely to get a petrol price increase of R2 a litre and diesel increasing by around R3 a litre. So those would keep inflation higher for longer and food price pressures are due to be affected by the Russia-Ukraine conflict. So inflation is likely to remain sticky around six percent over the next few months.” Price Increases I Cost of living for ordinary households strained:  