President Cyril Ramaphosa  has announced the easing of the coronavirus (COVID-19) lockdown restrictions in South Africa. Ramaphosa on Tuesday evening addressed the nation on South Africa’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Video | President Ramaphosa addresses the nation: 22 March 2022 Easing of COVID-19 restrictions Ramaphosa announced the easing of restrictions during level one of the COVID-19 lockdown. He says the easing of restrictions comes as fewer deaths are recorded and positive COVID-19 test results compared to when the virus was first detected in the country.  In his address Ramaphosa listed the new regulations that will come into effect on Wednesday, 23 March 202. However, the President cautioned that these changes do not mean the pandemic is over. He said the country is learning to live with the virus and returning back to normal in a safe way.      President @CyrilRamaphosa: The maximum number of people permitted at a funeral will increase from 100 to 200. As before, night vigils, after-funeral gatherings and ‘after-tears’ gatherings are not allowed. pic.twitter.com/9x4BTebkjJ — Presidency | South Africa  (@PresidencyZA) March 22, 2022  President @CyrilRamaphosa: As before, it is mandatory to wear a cloth mask or similar covering over the nose and mouth when in public indoor spaces. However, a mask is not required when outdoors. pic.twitter.com/NqtORC3NtA — Presidency | South Africa  (@PresidencyZA) March 22, 2022  President @CyrilRamaphosa: The approach going forward is that both indoor and outdoor venues can now take up to 50% of their capacity provided that the criteria for entrance are proof of vaccination or a COVID test not older than 72 hours. pic.twitter.com/rGqBzOWKOr — Presidency | South Africa  (@PresidencyZA) March 22, 2022  President @CyrilRamaphosa: Vaccination is likely to reduce transmission at home and at places like schools and universities where there is close contact. pic.twitter.com/kTGbJGLB8d — Presidency | South Africa  (@PresidencyZA) March 22, 2022  President @CyrilRamaphosa: The regulations on social distancing are also being changed, requiring that a space of 1 metre is maintained between persons in all settings except schools. pic.twitter.com/8fjwUGV0P7 — Presidency | South Africa  (@PresidencyZA) March 22, 2022  