The African National Congress Youth League (ANCYL) in the Eastern Cape has called for an investigation into possible corruption at the National Student Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS). This follows the East London Magistrate’s Court sentencing of Walter Sisulu University (WSU) student, Sibongile Mani, to five years in prison. R14 million was erroneously paid to her account by the NSFAS agency in 2017 – of which she spent over R800 000 in three months. Magistrate Twannet Olivier says Mani’s actions were not inspired by need, but by greed. In the report below, Mani to appeal five-year sentence:  She will remain out of prison until April 11, pending the outcome of her application for leave to appeal the sentence. ANCYL provincial spokesperson Zuko Godlimpi says, “We believe that a suspended sentence with community service would have served a much greater purpose. She could have been sent on the right road to talk to other students about the better ways of spending money received from NSFAS.” “There is a lot of institutional rot at NSFAS. We think this is an opportunity for the state to zoom into this scheme and to try to find out ways to keep the system tight.” Below is the full interview with Zuko Godlimpi:  South Africans react to Mani’s sentencing: Meanwhile, angry citizens have taken to social media to express their frustration and disappointment over the court sentence imposed on Mani. Some social media users feel that the court sentence was harsh to Mani. They say the country’s judicial system is inconsistent as it only targets poor and vulnerable groups in society. Some have gone as far as suggesting that the country’s laws were designed to favour the rich and the privileged. They argue that many politicians and white businessmen have gotten away with far more serious crimes.-Additional reporting by Tshepiso Moche  Sibongile Mani faces 15 years in prison for misusing R800 000 from R14 Million deposited into her account by NSFAS while Asher Bohbot founder of EOH is relaxing in his home after bribing Government Officials such as Zizi Kodwa and looted R 1, 2 Billion worth of Government Tenders pic.twitter.com/h9S80jeOyt — Great Zulu (@SuperiorZulu) March 30, 2022   Cabanga, Sibongile Mani chows R800k NSFAS money ko monateng. The judge is clear ‘Do not start at the beginning, go straight to jail for 5 years’. Yet policians against whom there are serious allegations of corruption still play monopoly games in comfort. — Christo  (@ChristoThurston) March 30, 2022   They don’t steal, they misappropriate. They don’t get sent to prison for theft, they pay back or get suspended sentences. The other one is called “NSFAS THIEF” and she will be known as such all the days of her life… pic.twitter.com/k3H3pLDpwL — Wonderboy Peters (@PetersWonderboy) March 30, 2022   A black student is sentenced to five years in jail for a mistake committed by NSFAS itself. Its not like she transferred the money herself. Yet fraudsters like Steinhoff are roaming freely. Our courts are racial and factional. — Modibe Modiba (@mmodiba10) March 30, 2022   I have a theory that that R14m that Sibongile got from NSFAS was not a mistake, the only mistake was that it went to her while it was meant for someone else. This isn’t the first time R14M gets transferred, it’s probably still going on. — Thendo Muloiwa (@MuloiwaThendo) March 30, 2022   5 years in jail for R14M NSFAS student The law really works perfectly against poor black people
#5yearsinjail #nsfas #Sibongilemani pic.twitter.com/VrZ253sWr0 — Pablo Barluzar (@RaymondSathekge) March 30, 2022 