 A look at major events across the African continent. This week, Africa gears up to host the largest radio telescope on earth, Kenya and Namibia ease COVID-19 requirements as cases drop and South African President Cyril Ramaphosa recognises King-Elect MisuZulu kaZwelithini as the King of the AmaZulu.   Outcomes of the 66th Session of the Commission on the Status of Women The 66th Session of the Commission on the Status of Women must agree on practical measures to enhance women’s leadership in all areas, particularly in the context of climate change. That was the opening message from South Africa’s Ambassador to the United Nations. Enhancing women’s leadership, climate change top 66th Commission on Status of Women  Outcomes of the 66th Session of the Commission on the Status of Women: Philile Ntuli  President Cyril Ramaphosa has recognised King-Elect MisuZulu kaZwelithini as the King of the AmaZulu. In a statement on Wednesday, Ramaphosa says this follows consultation with the Minister of Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs and the Premier of KwaZulu-Natal. We are improving operational efficiency in our ports and railways, streamlining and modernising visa application processes to attract much needed skilled workers, and providing the necessary support for small businesses to expand and grow.
#InvestSA https://t.co/74U3EdeJ3X — Cyril Ramaphosa  (@CyrilRamaphosa) March 16, 2022  Misizulu ascends to the throne after the death of his father King Goodwill Zwelithini Zulu in March last year. King-Elect MisuZulu kaZwelithini was named by his now late mother, the Regent Queen Mantfombi Dlamini-Zulu as the successor. Read more.  SA regulator refers Facebook’s Meta to tribunal for ‘abusing its dominance’ South Africa’s Competition Commission on Monday said it had referred Facebook owner Meta Platforms to a tribunal for allegedly abusing its dominant position in the market. Facebook referred to Competition Tribunal for ” Abusing it’s Dominance”: Tembinkosi Bonakele   In a statement, the regulator accused Meta of “abusing its dominance by engaging in exclusionary conduct geared at preventing competitors or potential competitors from entering into, participating, and expanding in a market.” Read more. Film Afrika and Netflix One Piece is currently shooting on location at the Cape Town Film Studios. President @CyrilRamaphosa visit showcased how local Film Afrika partnering with a global streaming service like @netflix can positively contribute to South Africa’s creative industry. #InvestSA pic.twitter.com/HNAYXMqxIw — Presidency | South Africa  (@PresidencyZA) March 17, 2022  Rwanda is the latest African country to announce plans to tax online services consumed within the country. Rwanda’s plans to tax online services: Yusuf Dadio  The Confederation of African Football(CAF) delegation is in Algeria this week in preparation for the TotalEnergies CHAN 2023.  CAF delegation led by Vice President Seidou Mbombo Njoya is currently in Algeria – the country that will host the TotalEnergies CHAN 2023 edition next year in January. #CAFOnline pic.twitter.com/oDgXFvztek — CAF Media (@CAF_Media) March 15, 2022   Kenya’s Ruto aims for presidency, vows no ‘debt slavery’ Deputy President William Ruto on Tuesday used his new party’s nomination to stand for Kenya’s presidency in an August election to lambast President Uhuru Kenyatta over his economic policies and democratic credentials. Ruto attacked Kenyatta’s record in front of five thousand cheering delegates dressed in his new United Democratic Alliance party’s green and yellow colours at a Nairobi auditorium. “Debt must be the last resort. We must not be slaves of debt from any place or any country,” he told the gathering. Read More Egypt’s GASC delays poultry tender deadline to March 20 and adjusts arrival dates Egypt’s state buyer, the General Authority for Supply Commodities (GASC) on Wednesday said it would delay the deadline for offers in its tender for poultry and would amend the arrival dates. GASC set the new tender deadline for 20 March and changed the arrival periods to April 1-30 and May 1-31. Read more.   The wearing of masks in public in Namibia and negative PCR tests for vaccinated visitors are no longer required, President Hage Geingob said on Tuesday, as active COVID-19 cases fall to just a couple of hundred. Infections peaked at more than 30,000 per month in June 2021 but the southern African country has averaged 14 cases per day during the last seven days, with the total active cases at 222. “Wearing of masks in public places is no longer mandatory, “Geingob said in a televised briefing. People in closed spaces such as on public transport or in indoor public meetings were however encouraged to wear masks. Read more. Kenya lifted its remaining COVID-19 restrictions on Friday, including a ban on large indoor gatherings such as religious services and a requirement to present a negative COVID-19 test for arriving air passengers.  Though Kenyans should continue heeding public health measures such as handwashing and social distancing, face masks are no longer mandatory in public and all quarantine measures for confirmed COVID-19 cases are halted with immediate effect, Health Minister Mutahi Kagwe told a news conference. Read more.  Moderna to set up mRNA vaccine manufacturing facility in Kenya Moderna Inc (MRNA.O) said on Monday it would set up a manufacturing facility in Kenya, its first in Africa, to produce messenger RNA (mRNA) vaccines, including COVID-19 shots. Moderna said it expects to invest about $500 million in the Kenyan facility and supply as many as 500 million doses of mRNA vaccines to the continent each year. It also has plans to start filling doses of its COVID vaccine in Africa as early as 2023. Read more.