Comair says it is unable to confirm when it will start flying again, after working through the night to provide documentation to the South African Civil Aviation Authority (SACAA) following a review of certain policies, systems and procedures. This as South Africa’s civil aviation regulator grounded Comair’s planes indefinitely on Sunday, saying the airline had not adequately addressed safety issues, in a move that also affects passengers of low-cost airline Kulula and British Airways. Comair chief executive Glenn Orsmond said in a statement: “This is a huge blow to our customers, employees and the flying public as it effectively takes 40% of the capacity out of the market.” “The implications for the aviation sector and the country are considerable should the suspension continue for any length of time,” he added. Despite working through the night, Comair will not be able to resume operations today. The SACAA still needs to review documentation provided overnight. We continue to engage constructively with the SACAA. — kulula (@kulula) March 13, 2022  A spokesperson for the (SACAA) said it had extended a 24-hour precautionary suspension of Comair’s operator certificate indefinitely. The suspension was meant to end on Sunday, but Comair has not adequately addressed all the necessary safety issues, the SACAA said. “This morning we communicated to them (Comair) that their air operator certificate is now indefinitely suspended until they close all of the findings,” SACAA spokesperson Phindiwe Gwebu told Reuters, effectively grounding the company’s fleet of Boeing aircraft. Media Alert: Civil Aviation Authority confirms the indefinite suspension of COMAIR’S Air Operator certificate. #SACAA pic.twitter.com/GUhmgqW6sA — SA Civil Aviation Authority – SACAA (@OfficialSACAA) March 13, 2022  Issuing the precautionary notice on Saturday, the regulator said in the past month Comair had experienced safety problems ranging from “engine failures, engine malfunction and landing gear malfunctions,” among others. In its investigations, SACAA said it had discovered three so-called “level 1” findings “which pose an immediate risk” and must be addressed immediately. Gwebu did not elaborate on what outstanding safety issues Comair, which flies local and regional routes from South Africa under the British Airways (BA) livery as part of a licence agreement, needed to address before flying again. Besides flying BA planes, Comair also operates the Kulula brand.