The ANC’s task team on the State Capture Commission’s report says it is considering recommending that the report be taken to the party’s integrity commission and other party committees for further interrogation. This will include interviewing those who have been fingered by commission chairperson, Raymond Zondo. The task team chaired by NEC member, Jeff Radebe says more details on how it will further interrogate the details of the report will be discussed during an extended National Working Committee next month. The report recommended further investigations into the alleged involvement of senior ANC officials in state capture. Treasurer General Paul Mashatile says the report continues to receive attention by the ANC. “This task team briefed the ANC on its recommendation on ANC deployees, referrals of proposed policies, legislation amendment and structures, to the NEC sub-committees for processing of proposed policies and matters to be referred to the integrity commission, the renewal commission and other structures of the ANC,” says Mashatile. ANC Treasurer-General briefs the media on NEC meeting outcomes: Political analyst Ralph Mathekga said earlier in March that the ANC will be forced to take action against some members mentioned in Part 3 of the State Capture report. The third instalment of the State Capture report recommended that former President Jacob Zuma; Energy Minister Gwede Mantashe and former Water and Sanitation Minister Nomvula Mokonyane be investigated for possible corruption.

Mathekga said it is likely that Mantashe will be relieved of his duties in the party because of this. The report outlined security upgrades Bosasa paid for at Mantashe’s houses in Elliot and Cala in the Eastern Cape, and Boksburg on Gauteng’s Eastrand while Mantashe was ANC secretary-general. Mantashe admitted he didn’t pay for the upgrades, but he disputed that they were linked to any potential wrongdoing. However, in the report, Zondo said the provision of free security installations was manifestly part of the corrupt modus operandi of Bosasa and its directors. Mathekga said that this will have serious consequences for Mantashe within the party. “The release of the third part of the report of the Zondo commission has brought very serious developments as far as the ANC as a political party is concerned. The report implicates very senior members of the party, in that it recommends that they are prosecuted. Among them is also Energy Minister, Gwede Mantashe who is also currently serving within the top six of the party. It’s quite difficult given what has happened within the party that Mr Mantashe will be able to continue with his position. The party has taken a position that those who are implicated in wrongdoing need step aside.”