The right of access to basic water supply and basic sanitation services is enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa of 1996, and government is responsible for the provision of water and proper sanitation. Chapter 4 of the National Development Plan envisages a South Africa that recognises the importance of secure and equitable access to water and sanitation as a catalyst for socio-economic development. It is against this background that Cabinet recently approved the third edition of the National Water Resource Strategy (NWRS) for public consultation. The strategy gives effect to the National Water Act, 1998 (Act 36 of 1998), which directs the adoption of the NWRS to guide the management of the water resource. The strategy document, which will be published in the Government Gazette, builds on the successes of the two previous editions of the strategy. It proposes far-reaching interventions on water management and aligns with the National Climate Change Adaptation Strategy to deal with, for instance, polluters of water. Some of the proposals include penalties for those who pollute water and the environment. When the new democratically elected government came into power in 1994, it identified the provision of water to its citizens as one of its key priorities. Apart from the limited water reserves at the time, government was aware of the historical injustices of the past. The provision of water services in then apartheid South Africa was done along racial lines. The Statistical Review of the water sector published in 2010 reported that the provision of water domestically and commercially, was averaged at about 46.3% in 1994, which was evidently done along racial lines. According to Statistics South Africa’s General Household Survey (GHS) of 2020, households that have access to water off-site or on-site in the country are at 89.1%. This demonstrates a huge and commendable investment by the democratic government to correct the inequalities in the provision of household water. Obviously, the ideal for the citizens is 100% access to clean water. The GHS further highlights that an increased number of households now have access to proper sanitation facilities. However, it also reports that some provinces such as Limpopo, Free State and Mpumalanga have somewhat regressed in the provision of water and sanitation. A number of communities have also been expressing their frustrations with sewerage spillages and some with water flow disruptions. Since water remains a limited resource and a critical component in the country’s economic recovery drive, it is imperative for all people in the country to consciously conserve it.  Proper maintenance of the water infrastructure should remain a critical component in government service delivery programmes. Conscientising communities on their roles in preventing water leaks in their respective areas remain key. Pollution of the environment leads to unnecessary wastage and is a health hazard to communities. Communities are encouraged to make inputs into the NWRS so that government can intervene in a meaningful and targeted manner. With this strategy, government remains committed to work with communities in addressing the water challenges.  Upgrading and maintenance of water infrastructure remain a challenge in some municipalities. The sustainable provision of water to all South Africans still requires the construction of new dams, and the construction of water piping and boreholes in areas still without water, as guided by the NWRS. The country’s ability to adapt to new technologies and innovation in the area of water and sanitation management also offers economic growth and job creation opportunities. The use of modern technology in water management will align the country with international trends, as it acknowledges the exponential growth in both the population and infrastructure development. Hopefully, Census 2022 will provide government with the actual size of the population to ensure the proper allocation of resources to, among other things, uphold the constitutional right to access water and sanitation services by all South Africans. However, communities need to realise that by failing to fix a leaking tap or damaged pipe, they are not assisting in ensuring all of us have enough water for our daily needs. Alternative ways to conserve water such as harvesting rainwater and using water sparingly will go a long way in making South Africa a country that can comfortably provide its citizens with this much-needed resource. Meanwhile, the annual World Water Day will be held on 22 March and as part of our national duty, let us all partner with government in the conservation of water, for our survival and socio-economic development. Phumla Williams is the Director-General of Government Communication and Information System as well as Cabinet spokesperson.