The right to a safe and secure environment remains a pipe dream for many women of the Reagile informal settlement in Koster, North West, as cases of femicide and gender-based violence are increasing. Most cases of femicide are committed by partners or ex-partners. This has become the narrative of many, 28-year-old Dimpho Motlodi was shot a year ago, allegedly by her boyfriend. A young bright star, who was expected to live and strive for her son. “I got a call from the father’s side, telling me that Dimpho is no more. I was alone in the house at the time. I couldn’t believe my ears. I asked how? He then said the boyfriend shot her. My daughter was so soft-spoken, she wouldn’t say what was happening to her.” A picture she will never forget. “I rushed to Rustenburg. I couldn’t believe it. The police vans were all over, brightening where my daughter was lying. My daughter was lying in a pool of blood. There were bullet wounds all over her face when I approached her. The phone was lying next to her with a bullet wound. The bullet also entered her hand.” Another Koster mother had to deal with the loss of her daughter. 28-year-old Mmatlala Moahlodi was doused with petrol and set alight in front of her home allegedly by her boyfriend “I opened the door and the police officer was holding my daughter’s phone. I told him that’s my child’s phone. He asked me what happened because no child’s died in front of the yard. I didn’t hear anything at night, no noise or fight. The policeman then told me my daughter was burnt and that they found 2 petrol bottles next to her.” Koster mothers denounce increased femicide, GBV cases on daughters in hands of partners:  Hope for justice While these mothers are hoping that justice will prevail, they also question the safety of females. They say their right to life is not guaranteed. “The perpetrator of my daughter is back at work, wearing uniform, while my daughter is lying in the grave. There’s no justice. I’m going to court time and again. He keeps changing lawyers. I don’t have enough money to make sure my daughter swiftly finds justice,” says the mother of Mmatlala Elizabeth Moahlodi. “We’re not safe here in Koster. We are always in fear. We don’t live like women with rights to life. Koster men are not protecting us. You get scared even when you see one at night. Can they protect us and stop being monsters,” adds Moahlodi’s mom. The Koster Community Police Forum says something drastic must be done as many femicide and GBV cases are opened at the local police station. “As a police forum, we are so concerned about the gender-based violence in our area. most of the guys or men around here actually abuse women, especially when it’s around month-end. There are too many cases that are reported. women abuse and domestic violence that occurred. I’m urging that against the men or guys like me you must take the responsibility to respect the women.” The community says the national human rights day commemoration which will be held in Koster should reiterate the condemnation of femicide. Rape survivors feel let down by criminal justice system 