Democratic Alliance (DA) leader John Steenhuisen has told Parliament during the vote on the motion of no confidence that members of the cabinet are only interested in securing privileges for themselves and not the country. He pointed to the recent reports of ministers spending over R17-million on new cars for themselves. Steenhuisen was speaking in support of his party’s motion of no confidence. He called on members to put the country first and vote for the motion. He added that one of the reasons ministers do not do their work is because they are not held accountable. Meanwhile, the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) say it is wrong for the DA to try and separate President Cyril Ramaphosa from his cabinet in its vote of no confidence. The EFF says Ramaphosa, as leader of the government and his cabinet, should be subject to such a vote. The party’s Ntombovuyo Mente pointed to a litany of failures by various ministers, including Fikile Mbalula at Transport and Pravin Gordhan at Public Enterprises. She says ANC Ministers have failed the country since 1994. “Take Minister Fikile Mbalula. Under his leadership, we have seen our transport rail network decimated beyond recognition…and taxi violence has become normal in this country.” In the stream below, MPs vote in a motion of confidence against cabinet members: ATM-led motion against Ramaphosa cancelled Earlier, Speaker of Parliament, Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula, announced that they will not be proceeding with the African Transformation Movement (ATM) initiated vote of no confidence in President Cyril Ramaphosa, amid argument from some MPs that the matter was sub judice. The party, which had placed it on the order paper, had declined to move it. Mapisa-Nqakula ruled that since the party has not moved ahead with the motion, there was nothing for the house to debate. Meanwhile, President Ramaphosa had scoffed at the motion of no confidence against him. Speaking to the SABC on the sidelines of the National Union of Mineworkers national congress in Boksburg, east of Johannesburg, President Ramaphosa said he is not concerned by the motion. Political Analyst Mpumelelo Mkhabela shares more on ATM’s cancelled motion: 