It’s still unclear whether the Nelson Mandela Metropolitan Municipality in the Eastern Cape has a permanent City Manager or not. A council meeting that was scheduled to appoint a permanent City Manager descended into chaos with opposition parties walking out of the meeting. They say there was no quorum to appoint a city manager after they walked out. Democratic Alliance caucus leader, Rano Kayser says the appointment was fraudulent and they do not recognize it. Kayser says the meeting must be properly reconvened to debate the item… “One of the reasons why he had reconvened that meeting, is for the executive mayor to re-table the item that relates to the appointment of a permanent municipal manager. For council to legally engage on the item and resolve of the item. Currently, were we stand we are of the opinion that he appointment is illegal and fraudulent and we are ready to litigate.” Council Speaker Gary van Niekerk has confirmed that there was not a quorum and there was no appointment.. “I noted the hands and they were fifty. Two people counted 54 but because half of the room left, the massage that was passed on the room said that it’s carried. There was no quorum at that time.” SA Metro: Nelson Mandela Bay Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality (NMBM) is located on the south-eastern coast of Africa in the Eastern Cape. It was formed in 2001, as an administrative area covering Gqeberha (former Port Elizabeth), the neighbouring towns of Uitenhage and Despatch, and the surrounding agricultural areas. Nelson Mandela Bay is a major seaport and automotive manufacturing centre. The Coega Industrial Development Zone (IDZ) is situated within the Nelson Mandela Metropolitan Municipality. The initiative is a multibillion-dollar industrial development complex customized for heavy, medium and light industries. It is adjacent to a deepwater port, the Port of Ngqura, and covers 110 km² of land. The city’s unique advantage of possessing two ports, namely Port Elizabeth Harbour and Ngqura, creates an opportunity for the city to establish a strong and vibrant maritime sector. Coalition government expected again for the Nelson Mandela Bay Metro [ November 2021]