South Africans are waiting with bated breath if the National State of Disaster will officially be lifted as the country marks the second anniversary of the national lockdown on Tuesday. This could be the end of the process meant to contain the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. During his State of the Nation Address (SONA), President Cyril Ramaphosa announced that government is planning to scrap the National State of Disaster as the country enters a new phase in the management of the pandemic. March 5th 2020 is the day when the then Health Minister Dr. Zweli Mkhize confirmed the first case of the coronavirus in the country. A few days later on 15 March,  Ramaphosa declared a National State of Disaster meant to contain and combat the spread of the deadly virus. He put the country on Alert Level 5 banning public gatherings and closing schools among others. COVID-19 Pandemic | Growing calls to do away with the National State of Disaster Two days later after the introduction of the national lockdown, the National Coronavirus Command Council (NCCC) was set up to coordinate the country’s effort to contain the virus but the infections kept rising and many deaths were reported which now stand at almost 100 000. The national lockdown was also extended on a monthly basis with the country now standing at the 20th extension since March 2020. Ramaphosa regularly updated the nation in what was popularly known as family meetings. Vaccine roll-out After months of anxiety, it was light at the end of the tunnel. Vaccines to fight the virus were found but it also came with challenges as many remained skeptical to take the jab. Ramaphosa was disappointed that the country’s vaccine roll-out programme was also fraught with corruption. Although South Africa missed its self-imposed 70% herd immunity by the end of last year, at least by last week 42% of the adult population was fully vaccinated. On different platforms, Ramaphosa emphasised the importance of vaccinating. He used the inaugural post-SONA Presidential Imbizo in Mahikeng on Saturday, to urge South Africans to vaccinate saying the country is not yet out of the woods. In the recent past, Ramaphosa has been on record saying that the lockdown regulations will soon be done away with. South Africa COVID-19 state of National State of Disaster to expire on Tuesday two years on: