Former SABC Head of News Snuki Zikalala has described the late Thelma Mapule Mbhalati as a person who helped change the character of the then-apartheid radio Bantu stations to public broadcasting. Zikalala was speaking in Johannesburg, at the funeral service of Mbhalati, former SABC Head of Radio News and Current Affairs. Mbhalati passed away last week at a Johannesburg hospital after battling a long battle against cancer. Her funeral service was held at the Jeppe high school for girls in Johannesburg. Mbhalati held several positions at the SABC including being the first female station manager for both SAfm and Munghana Lonene. She was the first female station manager for both Munghana Lonene and SAfm. Zikalala says Mbhalati also played a major role in improving the image of SABC News. “2004, SABC News was going through an identity crisis. And the quality of news had taken a nosedive. Mapule was tasked to turn radio news and current affairs around and ensured that its millions of listeners get quality news and current affairs programmes.” Zikalala tells mourners he was proud of the Mbhalati’s contribution. “She changed a conservative white tone radio station to a public broadcaster. Mapule finished off on a high note. As the first black woman at the helm of radio news and had clear agenda of empowering black women. Mbhalati was the first female Station Manager for both Munghana Lonene and SAfm. She is credited with appointing broadcasting greats like the late Vuyo Mbuli and Xolani Gwala. Mbhalati started her radio career in 1975 at the then SABC’s Radio Tsonga, which is now Munghana Lonene. Described as a music lover of all genres, Mbhalati dedicated much of her life to broadcasting. During her tenure at Munghana Lonene she introduced popular programmes like Ta khale ta thlavula, Nqambi ya nan’waka and Tinsimu ta Africa. Her daughter Rirhandzu Diale has paid a moving tribute. “My mom fought her fight, my mom was strong. My mom was a queen. May she rest in peace…” Mbhalati leaves behind her husband, four children and grandchildren.