City of Cape Town officials have taken their Clean-Up Campaign to the Strandfontein Pavilion, near Mitchells Plain. The recently launched city-wide campaign has taken place in several communities over recent weeks. Officials hope that residents take joint responsibility for the cleanliness of the city. Strandfontein Beach is one of 10 Blue Flag beaches along the Cape Town coastline. And, while workers clean the space frequently, litter including discarded face masks were found in the nearby dunes. Cape Town Mayor, Geordin Hill-Lewis says during a previous visit he was shocked to see how the Pavilion has deteriorated. “We want to lead by example to instil pride in Cape Town and pride means take care of the place, taking a sense of pride in it. Making sure that it is clean, it is beautiful, look at the people behind us playing in a clean beach with no glass with no plastic,” says Hill-Lewis. Vandag het ons Strandfontein Strand en Pawiljoen n bietjie skoon gemaak. Ons ‘Clean Up’ veldtog gaan steeds voort en dis lekker om te sien dat Kapenaars uit kom om te help. Maar ons benodig selfs nog meer hulp om ons stad skoon te maak so gryp n besem en stiek uit! pic.twitter.com/JV7kbabEI4 — Geordin Hill-Lewis (@geordinhl) March 12, 2022  A multi-million rand upgrade is planned for the Pavilion at the beach. “This is a long-term plan, so that’s why their participation it’s critical for us, so they can have buy in and co-design the way forward, hopefully in the long run the sceptics won’t be there anymore,” says Eddie Adrews, Deputy Mayor and Mayco Member for Spatial Planning and Environment. Residents joined in cleaning the area. “I am grateful for improving the beach because this is our space, this is our freedom, many people don’t have this opportunity to come to the beach to enjoy ourselves to relax. I think it’s a brilliant idea to renovate this place the space more convenient and staff like that, and I would like it very much if they can build a bridge for the people to walk across so they can vang vis,” says a resident. Others however, hope the investment at the beach can create job opportunities. “I think it’s good idea. I am sure the community is gonna benefit from that in terms of the upgrades, how are the upgrades going to be useful to the community, are they gonna create jobs I’m just interested in that,” says another resident. Officials hope that residents will take joint responsibility for the cleanliness of the city. City of Cape Town officials take their Clean-Up Campaign to the Strandfontein Pavilion: