Police have launched a manhunt after six men were gunned down at Umlazi, south of Durban. It is alleged that the victims – a group of men aged between 22 and 25 years old were inside a house at an informal settlement in N Section, Umlazi when the incident happened. Police spokesperson Jay Naicker says they were attacked by approximately seven men armed with pistols. Police are appealing to anyone with information to contact Crime Stop on 08600 10111. “It is alleged that at, a group of men aged between 22 and 25 years old, were seated in a house at an informal settlement in N Section, Umlazi when they were attacked by approximately seven men who were armed with pistols. Six of the occupants were killed in the attack and two men who were found injured near the scene of the attack were conveyed to local hospitals to receive medical attention. Detectives from the Provincial Task Team are investigating six counts of murder and two of attempted murder.” Increase in murder and attempted murder: Cele The crime statistics show an increase in murder and attempted murder in the first three months of 2021. Police Minister Bheki Cele released the quarterly crime statistics in Pretoria in May 2021. The statistics show the crime levels during the time when the country was under Lockdown Level 3 and Adjusted Level 1 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Although contact crimes have shown an overall decrease, Cele says it’s worrisome that more people died during this time compared to the same period last year. Alcohol and drugs have been cited as contributing factors to most contact crimes. He says the Eastern Cape and KwaZulu-Natal have recorded the most increases in murders. “4 976 People were killed in the first three months of 2021. This is 387 and more people killed compared to the corresponding period in the previous financial year. Mpumalanga province recorded the same; it is joined by Limpopo, Free State and Northern Cape in recording some form of decrease in murder cases. However, it is concerning that EC and KZN recorded double-digits increases standing at 21.5% and 16.9% respectively,” adds Minister Cele.