Russia has imposed sanctions against US President Joe Biden and Secretary of State Antony Blinken. Viewed as largely symbolic, the statement from the Russian Foreign Ministry also listed a number of additional senior US Government leaders – in a move that has done little to raise concerns at the White House. The Russian Foreign Ministry’s statement says that in response to a series of unprecedented sanctions from the United States, they were imposing personal sanctions on President Biden and representatives of the US leadership which include Secretary of State Blinken, Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs General Mark Milley and National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan. The sanctions would prohibit travel and freeze assets held in Russia.  The 13 listed individuals also include former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and the current White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki who offered this response. “I would first note that President Biden is a Jnr so they may have sanctioned his dad may he rest in peace, the second piece I would say is that it won’t surprise any of you is that none of us are planning tourist trips to Russia, none of us have banks accounts that we won’t be able to access so we will forge ahead.” White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki on Russian sanctions of President Biden and other senior U.S. officials: “I would first note that President Biden is a “Jnr” so they may have sanctioned his dad – may he rest in peace. (cont…)#sabcnews — Sherwin Bryce-Pease (@sherwiebp) March 15, 2022  The foreign ministry also indicated that it would maintain official relations with Washington and if necessary, ensure that high-level contacts with the people on the list could still take place. This as Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelenskiy is due to address the United States Congress on Wednesday. Kyiv’s envoy to Washington Oksana Markarova offered this prelude. “We have to isolate Russia completely. They cannot be in any of the international organizations. They cannot sit around the table unless they stop this brutal aggression, ceasefire, and get out from our country. This has implications for all of us. It’s not about Ukraine only. The world, as we knew it and the infrastructure, the security infrastructure, global infrastructure, which we — all countries worked so hard to set after World War Two is no longer there. So, the question actually to all of us is, is it ok for an autocratic, aggressive nuclear power to attack a neighboring state and get away with it? And I’m positive that all of us together, all the civilized world has to answer decisively – no!” US and NATO allies have been apprehensive about calls to establish and enforce a no-fly zone over Ukraine – a key demand out of Kyiv and one President Zelenskiy is expected to push Wednesday. Also – the White House confirming that President Biden would travel to Europe next week to attend an extraordinarily NATO Summit to discuss ongoing deterrence and defence efforts in response to Russia’s attack on Ukraine. Biden is also expected to join a European Council Summit on the imposition of further economic costs on Russia and on the provision of humanitarian support for the growing number of victims of the war.