Comair and low-cost airliner Kulula.com have resumed their flights on Thursday morning. The British Airways operated flights were suspended on Sunday after the South African Civil Aviation Authority (SACAA) suspended its Air Operators’ Certificate. Hundreds of commuters were left stranded this week after their flights were cancelled. The airline says it is pleased the situation has been resolved. British Airways operated Comair and Kulula.com schedules have been restored. Customers have been advised to check their schedules on the airline’s websites before going to the airport. Comair says it is now focussing on getting its operations back to normal. SACAA suspended the airlines after investigations suggested there may be safety risks at the operator. “From our process, the Director of Civil Aviation lifted the suspension last night. So that should pave the way for them to continue operations today. This was a very rigorous process for our inspectors and the Comair team. We have faith that the team is now fully on board in terms of what is required and we hope that they will take this forward in terms of how they run their operations in the future,” says SACAA spokesperson Phindiwe Gwebu. Gwebu says the SACAA team worked together with the airline to ensure that operations are swiftly restored: Numsa pleased investigations are completed Meanwhile, the National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa (Numsa) has welcomed the SACAA’s decision to lift the suspension of Air Operator Certificate with immediate effect. The union says they are pleased SACAA has completed its investigations. “We thank the SACAA for dealing with this matter swiftly so that the airline and workers can get back to work. Going forward the board of Comair must heed the warning and take drastic measures to turn this airline around. That means implementing a philosophy of putting people ahead of profits. The extreme cost-cutting measures, implemented by Glenn Orsmond cost the airline its operating certificate. At the same time, the airline cannot continue to be under perpetual business rescue – these issues are intertwined,” says Numsa spokesperson Phakamile Hlubi- Majola. Numsa says its members are also demanding the removal of company Chief Executive Officer Glenn Orsmond. “This is why we continue to demand Glenn Osmond’s resignation on the basis that his management decisions almost caused the airline to crash land. This airline deserves a CEO with a vision to save Comair and turn it around for the long term, whilst guaranteeing the safety of passengers and the public,” says Majola. During the precautionary suspension, the airline did what it could to help customers including chartering wide-bodied aircraft and accommodating customers on other airlines.