A member of the AmaZulu royal family, Prince Bakhe Zulu, has expressed his support for King Misuzulu kaZwelithini. Despite looming court challenges, Prince Bakhe says they never doubted that he was a rightful heir to the throne. Zulu says although divisions within the royal family had played out in the public, he hopes that it will pass. “I would like to share that as members of the royal house, we are happy with the President’s decision that King MisuZulu, as we had been behind him and supporting him. We were part of meetings where his name was nominated, we supported it. Another thing, the King in the Zulu nation is not voted in but he is chosen by his father, and King MisuZulu was chosen by his father, although there was a bit of noise challenging him, we know that will soon pass.” Communities in KwaNongoma react to President Ramaphosa’s recognition of King Misuzulu:  A member of one of the AmaZulu regiments Nkosikhona Ndabandaba says they are happy with President Cyril Ramaphosa’s decision to recognise King MisuZulu KaZwelithini. This after, some members of the royal family announced that they will go to court to review and set aside the decision by the President. A brother of the late King Goodwill Zwelithini kaBhekhuzulu, Prince Mbonisi Zulu, says it is partly based on misgivings they have expressed to the President about the process that was followed for the royal family to identify and nominate a successor. Ndabandaba says they are now waiting for the coronation. “As regiments, we are only waiting for our leaders to tell us when are we going to salute our King. We as the King’s subjects have long recognised our King. We were hearing those speaking about courts. We were not deterred, but it was painful seeing divisions.” Meanwhile, Ndabandaba says it is embarrassing that members of the royal family plan to go to court about the succession “These continuous divisions by some members of the Royal house are embarrassing us as the nation, they are showing us their ambitions. Actually, this is sad for us as the nation, for Prince Mbonisi to be amongst people against the traditions and customs of the Zulu nation, it is sad.” The President’s recognition of King Misuzulu is a victory for customary law: Prince Africa Zulu: 