Mpumalanga Premier Refilwe Mtshweni-Tsipane has issued a stern warning to criminals and foreign nationals, who commit crimes at Elukwatini near Manzana, in Mpumalanga. Mtshweni-Tsipane was addressing the community during a provincial Crime Imbizo in the area. The Imbizo comes a few months after the killing of the Elukwatini Station Commander, Beauty Marivate, who was fatally shot when she responded to a business robbery. Five suspects were arrested and two are out on bail. The provincial government says the increase of criminal activities in the area has necessitated engagement with the communities through the Crime Prevention Imbizo. Residents of Elukwatini and surrounding areas, came in numbers to interact with government leaders on crime prevention strategies. Some residents complained about the poor road infrastructure, which makes it difficult for the police to respond quickly to crime scenes Quarterly Crime Stats I The future of policing in South Africa with Ziyanda Stuurman Provincial Police Commissioner, Simakaleng Manamela says they are closing all the gaps to eliminate crime in the area. “We are seeing a decrease that is taking place in most of the crimes although we do stats and crime stats that are increasing like rape and murder, they are giving us a very serious challenge. Hence you see today we are calling the community to come and assist us. These are the crimes that are taking place inside the houses, these are crimes that take place after they come from the taverns, we are dealing with that together jointly, we are working with safety and security,” says Manamela. The provincial government has noted with concern that some of the criminal activities involve foreign nationals. Mtshweni-Tsipane says they have had enough with criminal activities. “The crime that has engulfed this municipality has increased a lot. Now we are here as government to say that enough is enough. We are saying no to criminal activities that are happening here and in the main what we have seen most of the people that are committing crimes within this municipality are people who are coming from other countries as well. Unfortunately, we are housing them in our backyards and later on, they turn out to be something else they break into our houses they break into businesses,” says Mtshweni-Tsipane. The provincial government has urged communities to work with the police in the fight against crime. Police Minister Bheki Cele releases crimes statistics for the third quarter of 2021-2022