President Cyril Ramaphosa has emphasised the importance of producing and buying locally to boost the country’s economy at a time when it has been brought to its knees by the COVID-19 pandemic. Ramaphosa delivered a virtual address at the 10th annual Buy Local Summit and Exco on Tuesday in Sandton, Johannesburg. Video: President Cyril Ramaphosa addresses Buy Local Summit:  The summit aims to inform, educate and equip entrepreneurs in creating jobs and rebuilding the economy by producing locally. The President says this will assist revive South Africa’s ailing economy. Ramaphosa says the pandemic has exposed the South Africa’s capabilities in production and distribution… “The economic damage caused by the COVID-19 pandemic has placed even greater demands on our economy to provide employment and livelihood opportunities. The pandemic has both exposed the fragility of global supply chains and revealed the great capacity we have here in South Africa for innovation and adaptation in manufacturing. In a space of just two years, through collaboration and out of necessity, we managed to build local production capability in ventilators, hand sanitisers, medical grade face masks and gloves as well as vaccines and therapeutic drugs and anaesthetics,” says Ramaphosa.  He says local production encourages national pride, supports the growth of businesses,creates employment and sustains livelihoods. “Local production is important because it encourages national pride in the goods, services and products made on our home soil. It supports the growth of small businesses and the expansion of larger firms. It creates employment and sustains livelihoods. Local production supports our manufacturing sector. It enables us to build much-needed infrastructure and improve our services,” says Ramaphosa. “It is my pleasure to address this Summit at a time when the Buy Local message is more important than ever. The economic damage caused by the COVID-19 pandemic has placed even greater demands on our economy — Presidency | South Africa  (@PresidencyZA) March 15, 2022    10th annual Proudly SA Buy Local Summit & Expo https://t.co/mDqD72Ve0R — #BuyLocalSummit2022 (@ProudlySA) March 15, 2022  Video: Buy Local Summit and Expo I SEDA, SEFA and CBDA merged: Ndabeni-Abrahams   Video: Proudly South Africa’s annual Buy Local Summit and Expo themed “Reset, Rebuild and Recover”  