The ongoing Tshwane strike is having a dire impact on many residents around the Capital City. Power outages are felt across the municipality as workers protest for better wages. Tshwane workers intensified their strike for higher wages this week, and downed tools, impacting service delivery. Many residents around Tshwane are having a bleak long weekend. This as the current wage dispute strike in Tshwane has plunged them into darkness. A resident Tim Sebola lives in a popular estate in Centurion. The whole estate has been without power. He says it’s even more disturbing as this inconvenience happens as the country celebrates Humans Rights month. His family in his hometown, Soshanguve, is even worse off, he says. Waste collection services are also affected. The City established a joint operations centre to restore interrupted services. Tshwane says they are working around the clock to restore services. Meanwhile, the City says a comprehensive plan is adopted to mitigate the service disruptions pending the strike. No reports of intimidation and threats have been reported since Friday morning. Workers accused of intimidating contractors: Nkhetheni Muthavhi The South African Municipal Workers Union denies claims that union members were intimidating other workers at the City of Tshwane following a wild cat strike in the city. In fact, the union distances itself from the strike. Samwu’s Tshwane Regional Chair, Nkhetheni Muthavhi:  City of Tshwane Mayor Randall Williams seeks further legal action against the South African Municipal Workers Union. He says the strike drives narrow political interests after workers blocked streets in Centurion with litter, rubble and stones and set rubbish bins on fire, demanding salary increases. The City last year decided not to implement salary hikes in terms of an agreement with unions and the SA Local Government Association, citing financial constraints. City of Tshwane Mayor seeks further legal action against Samwu: Randall Williams  VIDEO: City of Tshwane employees down tools: Selby Bokaba 