The late SABC Video Journalist, Thabo Katsande has been honoured and celebrated for his immense contribution to society. The award-winning Katsande died last week Friday at a hospital in Pretoria from a heart condition. During his illustrious career, the 48-year-old Katsande covered news for both radio and TV. The Multi-talented Katsande also presented a reggae show and current affairs on Lesedi FM. A somber moment as family, friends and colleagues bid their farewell to Katsande – hailed as an advocate for social justice and community development. Speaker after speaker described him as well informed and brilliant. His 1995 class of the now Tshwane University of Technology (TUT) named him Professor Katsande. To his family, he was a pillar of strength. “I’ll do exactly what my uncle wanted me to do, to study hard and be successful,” says Katsande’s niece Boitumelo Neko. Colleagues say they will keep his legacy alive. “He was advocating for equality within the society. He was committed to his job, as colleagues we have lost. We will continue to remember his teachings,” says colleague Aphumelele Mdlalane. “He was a well-rounded figure, the embodiment of modern-day journalism,” says a friend Sehloho Mphati. To others, Katsande was also a counselor. “It is painful that I have to talk about him. Thabo saved too many marriages. Those who wanted to kill themselves saved them. One day you will know why I say that,” says friend Dimakatso Mahasa. “As he was in Bloemfontein, working for the SABC everything that affects service delivery in Maluti-a-Phofung, Thabo will call you and instruct you to rectify the matter,” says Maluti-a-Phofung chief whip, Moeketsi Lebesa. Suspended ANC Secretary General Ace Magashule says Katsande was writing a book about him. “Thabo was well known; I used to call him a risk-taker. He told me that he is writing a book and would like to meet up with him,” says suspended ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule. Mourners say Katsande has left a void in the media fraternity and in society at large. Katsande was laid to rest at his hometown of QwaQwa in the Free State. VIDEO: SABC video journalist Thabo Katsande to be laid to rest on Saturday 