The family of a 23-year-old woman found buried in a shallow grave in Modimolle, Limpopo says they want justice. Kgomotso Maropola’s partially decomposed body was discovered by police sniffer dogs on Wednesday, four days after she left home. She was laid to rest at Phakgamang Township on Sunday, where her friends and relatives bid their final farewell to Maropola. No arrests have been made so far. Her family says she left home to visit a friend. Police and community members launched a search operation after Maropola did not return home. The family’s worst fears were confirmed when her body was discovered near a railway line at Phagameng. “We are devastated but we pray that whoever has done this must be brought to book and our child receive justice. So far, we haven’t heard anything from the police. What they said is that they will update us as investigations are still underway,” says Theo Maropola, family spokesperson. Gender-Based Violence | Is South Africa winning the fight against GBV? MEC for Social Development Nkakareng Rakgoale and her counterpart at the Department of Transport and Community Safety Mavhungu Lerule-Ramakhanya – were among the mourners. Lerule-Ramakhanya says police investigations are at an advanced stage. “The investigation is already high. The post mortem results have also given us more information on what to look for from what we actually discovered. So far I can assure you not so long, we will be getting the person, we will be getting the perpetrators and we know the person did not act alone,” says Lerule-Ramakhanya. Addressing the mourners, Rakgoale encouraged men to seek professional help in resolving issues rather than resorting to violence. “I really think it’s high time men stand up and stop their imaginary men’s conference perhaps arrange a real men’s conference just to go and talk among themselves because men are going through a lot. Even women go through a lot but as women, we are trying our level best to talk, something our opposite sex is not doing,” says Rakgoale. Killings in Maropola The community is reeling in fear after the killing. Dozens of residents have disappeared from Modimolle. Some were reported missing more than 10 years ago and have still not been found. Residents say Maropola’s killing may indicate a new wave of abductions and killings in the area. “When they find the perpetrators, they must bring them to us so we can handle them because they killed and buried her like a dog,” says a resident. “I’m in so much pain as a parent, this can happen to my child. They must find the perpetrators so the community can deal with them as we are no longer safe,” says another resident. Limpopo family want justice for their slain daughter: 