Operation Dudula says schooling activities will not go ahead in the area on Tuesday. This is as the movement embarks on a shutdown of the township. The movement says they’re adamant that undocumented foreign nationals must stop trading in Alexandra. Scores of people went to Pan Africa Mall in Alex on Monday, shutting down shops and removing street vendors. They also blocked roads with burning tyres on Monday night. The group has denied being xenophobic – saying they are protecting the economy. “There will be a shutdown today but we are still discussing with another stakeholder. All the foreign shops must close. We are not going to compromise on that. But schools, today, are not going to be open. But tomorrow they will be open to continue with their education,” says Msyza, the leader of the Alex Dudula Movement.  Update on situation in Alexandra post Monday clashes between South Africans and foreign nationals  Alexandra residents have barricaded roads with rubble and burning tires. They are calling for a total shutdown of the township. While streets around the Pan Africa Mall are being swept. some residents are blocking roads with rubble and burning tyres. Some residents have been confused by the sudden flare up, saying they were under the impression that the Dudula movement was focusing on traders and not residents.  HAPPENING NOW Situation in Alexandra Township this morning. Police have been brought in to manage the situation.Taxi operators concerned their businesses being interrupted by the pockets of unrest.#SABCNEWS pic.twitter.com/iO4RRC7DSc — Chriselda 'Babes We Ndaba' Lewis (@Chriseldalewis) March 8, 2022  Alexandra Stand-Off I Police address the media as locals and foreigners clash  Good morning from Alexandra, North of Johannesburg this morning where a large police contingent has been brought in following violence between foreign nationals and South Africans yesterday.#SABCNEWS pic.twitter.com/ymIIeJoMqy — Chriselda 'Babes We Ndaba' Lewis (@Chriseldalewis) March 8, 2022 