Acting Chief Justice Raymond Zondo says he is confident that he will be able to work well with all members of the Judicial Services Commission (JSC). Judge Zondo was addressing the media following his official appointment by President Cyril Ramaphosa as the Chief Justice. Justice Zondo beat the other three contenders for the position, which include Judge Mandisa Maya, who has since been set to take the position of Deputy Chief Justice when Justice Zondo takes the reins on 1 April. Responding to a question about his relationship with some members of the JSC after they recommended Judge Maya to the position, Judge Zondo says the JSC has also welcomed his appointment. “I had the opportunity in October last year to chair the JSC when it had that session of interview. I can tell you that I found absolute co-operation and respect from all members of the JSC. You mention Mr. Malema, I want to say that during that session, Mr. Malema was very courteous, respectful, was very constructive in his input in deliberations and discussion, I am confident that we are going to work very well, I am not concerned at all.” ‘Special honour’ He says he is honoured that he has been appointed as Chief Justice.  “I felt honoured because I do think that it’s an honour to be appointed as Judge in the first place – but to be appointed as a Chief Justice of the country is a special honour. It gives one an opportunity to serve the people in a very special way.” Raymond Zondo’s briefing on his appointment as Chief Justice of South Africa:  Allegations of a captured judiciary Zondo says the continued allegations that the country’s judiciary is captured need to be taken in a serious light and be investigated. He says the justice system is not in any way designed to have judges taking sides and sometimes being bribed to pass judgments in a favourable manner to a certain faction in a case. Recently among those who have come out strongly, saying the Judiciary is captured is Economic Freedom Fighters leader Julius Malema. But Justice Raymond Zondo says if anyone feels or believes there is an element of capture in the judiciary, must come forth with the evidence, so that action can be taken against such judges. Justice Zondo says there have been allegations of bribery in the judiciary, but no evidence has come forward. “It is not in the interest of anybody who loves this country to portray our judiciary as captured. And if anybody has got evidence that any judge is captured, all the judiciary is captured, they must come forward with evidence.”