Twelve people have been arrested after two retail outlets were broken into and looted on Wednesday night at Umlazi township J section south of Durban. This incident follows another looting incident that was reported south of Durban on Monday where some communities were allegedly helping themselves to containers that were washed away by floods. Police spokesperson Nqobile Gwala says the 12 suspects are arrested for charges of business burglary and possession of stolen property. Gwala says they will appear at the Umlazi Magistrate’s Court on Thursday. “Last night (Wednesday) at 21:00, a group of community members entered two business premises at Umlazi H and J Section and they took groceries and appliances. Police swiftly responded at both premises and arrested a total of 12 suspects. The suspects were arrested for charges of burglary business and possession of stolen property. Some of the stolen groceries were recovered by police and handed back to the store manager. A vehicle that was used in the commission of a crime was also seized by police.” Old Airport Precinct Several big businesses in and around the Old Airport Precinct south of Durban have been looted following the torrential rains that led to widespread flooding in many parts of KwaZulu-Natal. Disaster management teams are still working around the clock to assist those in affected communities. As provincial authorities begin to count the cost of the damages caused by the flooding in KwaZulu-Natal, widespread looting has been reported in several areas. It is believed that the Maersk shipping depot has been gutted by looters, with copper from refrigerated containers having also been stolen. Reports and videos on social media indicate that several retail outlets in Umlazi, including Boxer and Shoprite U-Save have also been looted. Police are yet to confirm this. The video below is reporting on the looting at the Boxer, Usave stores in Umlazi:  July looting The July 2021 unrest claimed about 350 lives and caused over R50 billion damages to infrastructure and businesses in KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng. VIDEO: Looters heading to warehouses on Umgeni Road in July 2021: Additional reporting by Sashin Naidoo.