President Cyril Ramaphosa says South Africans should work toward unity and that the domination of one group over another should never happen again in South Africa. Giving the keynote address on Freedom Day at Middelburg, in Mpumalanga, on Wednesday, the President says the words of former President Nelson Mandela should never be forgotten. Our Constitution protects everyone’s rights. Our Bill of Rights is centred on affirming human dignity, equality and freedom. Track our progress in delivering on this commitment to ensure that no one is left behind. #25yearsofconstitution https://t.co/ctTxzLEv2T pic.twitter.com/PiXBuDoYhD — Presidency | South Africa  (@PresidencyZA) April 27, 2022  This year’s celebrations are taking place at the Kees Taljaard Stadium in Middelburg – under the theme “Consolidate our Democratic Gains”. According to the Presidency, “Part of the backdrop to Freedom Day 2022 is the 25th anniversary of South Africa’s Constitution, the country’s ending of the COVID-19 national state of disaster, the response currently to a natural disaster in the province of KwaZulu-Natal, and the implementation of the Economic Reconstruction and Recovery Plan.” President Ramaphosa leads the official commemoration of Freedom Day in Middleburg, Mpumalanga: Land redistributionRamaphosa says the government continues to work on the land redistribution issue – to correct the injustices of the past. “In free SA, we have recognised the injustices of the past and are implementing a programme to redistribute land to those who were dispossessed of their birthright. The land issue is still a burning issue among many South Africans and we are addressing it. The SA of today is democratic and open.” While South Africans face challenges, the President claims that the government has made significant strides in cementing the country’s democracy. He has emphasised on government’s efforts to improve South Africans’ lives under democracy. Ramaphosa has lambasted attempts to misuse relief efforts for residents in KwaZulu-Natal after the floods that devastated the province. Floods hit the province earlier this month, killing over 400 people, displacing thousands more, and destroying critical infrastructure.  The cost of damage is estimated to be around R17 billion, according to KZN Premier Sihle Zikalala. 