The dollar gained on Monday, rising for three straight sessions, as civilian killings in north Ukraine and the prospect of increased sanctions on Russia pushed investors to seek safety in the greenback. The US currency also continued to garner support from a strong March non-farm payrolls report released Friday that backed expectations for a hefty half a percentage point tightening by the Federal Reserve at next month’s meeting. “A lot of investors are becoming more pessimistic that we’re going to have a resolution about peace talks between Russia and Ukraine,” said Edward Moya, senior market analyst at OANDA in New York. “For the most part, the expectation is that the European Union may have to ramp up sanctions on Russia. That’s going to slow down recovery for that part of the world, which is pushing a lot of flows into the US dollar,” he added. Global outrage spread on Monday over civilian killings in northern Ukraine, where a mass grave and tied bodies of people shot at close range were found in a town taken back from Russian forces. Russia though denied the accusations. The deaths in Bucha, outside Kyiv, are likely to galvanize the United States and Europe into additional sanctions against Moscow, possibly including some restrictions on the billions of dollars in energy that Europe still imports from Russia. German Defence Minister Christine Lambrecht said the European Union should discuss ending Russian gas imports. Russia supplies some 40% of Europe’s gas needs. In afternoon trading, the dollar index, which measures the greenback against a basket of peers rose 0.4%to 98.986. Since an intra-day trough hit on February 24 when Russia attacked Ukraine, the dollar has gained about 3%. Data on Friday showed US unemployment hit a two-year low of 3.6% last month, leading investors to assess if the numbers would strengthen the Fed’s resolve to tackle inflation by lifting rates sharply. “That employment report signals a diverging story of what’s happening with the US and most of the developed economies,” said OANDA’s Moya. “The US economy is still on solid footing and this strong jobs report is paving the way for a much more aggressive Fed hiking path.” Fed funds futures on Friday have priced an 81% chance of a 50 basis point hike next month, while two-year US yields hit 2.4950%, their highest level since March 2019. The euro, which has been under pressure due to worries about economic damage from the conflict in Ukraine, fell 0.8% versus the dollar to $1.0970. Against sterling, the euro fell 0.7% at 83.64 pence. Against the yen, the dollar rose 0.2% to 122.805 yen. Markets in mainland China were closed for a public holiday, but in offshore trade the yuan pressured by concerns over a lengthening lockdown in Shanghai, where authorities are seeking to virus-test all 26 million residents.