The Johannesburg Metro Police Department (JMPD) says there have been numerous motor vehicle accidents in the City on Monday morning. In Melrose Estate there was a multi-vehicle collision and several people have been injured. Traffic is also heavy on the M1 in both directions at Athol Oaklands drive due to the accident. JMPD spokesperson Xolani Fihla says, “Due to the unfavourable conditions on the roads we have received numerous complaints of accidents in the City. There has been an accident on the N3 south on London road involving a pedestrian, two lanes are affected and JMPD is on the scene.” “In Kensington there has been an accident on Jerome street and in Waverly there has been an accident on the M1 north,” says Fihla. “Traffic is heavy on the M1 North and South. In Melrose Estate there has been an accident on Glenhove road and in South hills there was a serious accident with injuries on southern Kliprivier road and Outspan street.” Traffic Advisory There’s an an accident on the M1 Northbound at Athol Oaklands road causing heavy delays on the M1 South & North. Please approach with caution! pic.twitter.com/qRpTEEKB4e — Jo’burg Metro Police Department – JMPD (@JoburgMPD) April 11, 2022  #JMPD officers Fondile, Tsatsimpe & Modise from #RegionC Operations assisting to fill a huge pothole at Main Reef Rd at the entrance of Afrisam & at Houtkapper Str, Rand Leases, Roodepoort to prevent further accidents. @MyJRA informed. Great work done #JoburgsFinest#SaferJoburg pic.twitter.com/tsnJ9CSjd8 — Jo’burg Metro Police Department – JMPD (@JoburgMPD) April 10, 2022  Johannesburg Emergency Services has advised motorists in the City to drive with caution, due to wet and slippery conditions on roads. The South African Weather Service says heavy rainfall is expected to persist until Wednesday. Joburg EMS spokesperson Robert Mulaudzi says, “It’s raining in most parts of the City of Johannesburg, many roads are wet and slippery, motorists are urged to exercise caution. Extend a safe following distance and also try and avoid crossing flooded roads and bridges. Our residents are also urged to look after heating devices as it is extremely cold in most parts of the city.” 