The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) and pro-democracy groupings in Eswatini have been protesting at the border posts between South Africa and Eswatini. The Mananga, Jeeps Reef and Oshoek ports of entry were blockaded, disrupting traffic flow as residents of Eswatini protested, calling for political and democratic reform. EFF Swaziland, Pudemo and Swalino claim their call for democratic and political reform has led to the brutality that continues unabated. Swalimo Member Sihle Ndwandwe says, “The masses are shying away. We are beaten every day, we have to hide our regalia. Since yesterday they blocked the roads. They were roadblocks everywhere…” EFF calls for democratic reform in Eswatini with pro-democracy protests at the border:  The protesters want to do away with the monarchy, as King Mswati the Third celebrates his 54th birthday… The EFF says his birthday shouldn’t be celebrated. EFF National spokesperson Sinawo Tambo says, “We are calling for the fall of Mswati who has subjected his people to a lack of democracy and political parties and imprisoned those who wish to question his government that is characterised by corruption while he lives in luxury and people live in poverty. We know it is his birthday but we won’t celebrate his birthday as he continues to kill people and deny them of their rights and freedoms.” The EFF Swaziland is here at Oshoek border post in Mpumalanga. #EFFeSwatiniProtests pic.twitter.com/56peYhorig — Economic Freedom Fighters (@EFFSouthAfrica) April 19, 2022  The EFF has shutdown the eSwatini border in Mpumalanga. We are here in solidarity with our brothers and sisters in eSwatini. The EFF in Swaziland has been at the forefront of the struggle against dictatorship and corrupt monarchy. #EFFeSwatiniProtests pic.twitter.com/siUFyM09w2 — Economic Freedom Fighters (@EFFSouthAfrica) April 19, 2022 Eswatini is Africa’s last absolute monarchy, King Mswati the Third has been at the helm since 1986. The country banned political parties in 1973, this proclamation made by King Sobhuza has never been repealed. However the country’s constitution does guarantee freedom of association, and political parties do register on this basis. Pudemo president Mlungisi Makhanya says, “If we make sure we suffocate him and make sure nothing gets in and out of Swaziland. Then we are blocking him from living a lavish lifestyle and buying guns to kill our people.” The protesters tried to forcefully enter Eswatini but were blocked by the country’s customs officials. Attempts to get comments from the Eswatini government were unsuccessful. EFF Protest At The Oshoek Border at eSwatini https://t.co/bRwkVsapNz — Economic Freedom Fighters (@EFFSouthAfrica) April 19, 2022  EFF at Oshoek border post. Mswati has continually shown his contempt for all diplomatic relations. The International community must apply pressure to ensure the demands of the people of eSwatini are met and the despotic king is isolated until he succumbs to demands of the people pic.twitter.com/muf6b0cHXp — Economic Freedom Fighters (@EFFSouthAfrica) April 19, 2022  The EFF stood up in solidarity with the people of eSwatini today. SA government must isolate and close down the diplomatic offices of the king Mswati III in SA as form of protest and demonstration against his order to brutalise and maim the struggling people of eSwatini. pic.twitter.com/5lZweL7u5k — Economic Freedom Fighters (@EFFSouthAfrica) April 19, 2022  Fighters led by the EFF President in eSwatini Commissar Nombulelo Motsa and the EFF head of International Relations Desk Commissar @GardeeGodrich, running into the Oshoek border post into eSwatini land. The fences are useless! #EFFeSwatiniProtests pic.twitter.com/rKh17vxJJh — Economic Freedom Fighters (@EFFSouthAfrica) April 19, 2022 