The state’s first witness in the Senzo Meyiwa murder trial, Sergeant Thabo Mosia  will be back on the stand when the case resumes in the High Court in Pretoria on Thursday morning. Mosia has described what he found on the crime scene when he arrived about 20 minutes after midnight on October 26th, 2014. He told the court that they found a bullet case, a hat, and a walking stick in the kitchen as they were combing the scene. Meyiwa was killed at his then girlfriend Kelly Khumalo’s mother’s home in Vosloorus, on the East Rand, during an alleged robbery. Five men have been arrested and are facing charges of premeditated murder among others in connection with the fatal shooting of Meyiwa. They’ve pleaded not guilty. Senzo Meyiwa Murder Trial | Morning testimony centres around preservation of the crime scene: On Tuesday, Mosia said the people in the house in which Meyiwa was shot delayed in reporting the matter to the police. “I think the victims of the crime scene are the ones who delayed to report the matter due to the fact that they had to take the victim to hospital,” says Mosia. The spotlight was cast on the amount of time between the time Senzo Meyiwa was shot and the time the first forensic expert arrived on the scene during the soccer star’s murder trial. Mosia was asked as to whether during the four hours that he took to arrive at the scene the crime scene could have been tampered with. “I do not suspect any tampering,” says Mosia. He has pointed out to what he thought indicated there was indeed a scuffle in the house. “By noticing a walking stick on the floor and the hat on the floor that could tell there was a scuffle in the house as I have explained,” he says. The originality of the information Mosia has was also questioned. Mosia says he didn’t interview anyone in the house but relied on the information of Brigadier Ndlovu who was the senior of police officers who were on the scene. “According to information I got, two African males (arrived). One entered while the other remained outside. The suspected in the house demanded money, a scuffle in the kitchen ensued, and(Kelly) Khumalo ran to the bedroom. The suspect tried to push open the door. During the scuffle a shot went off and the suspect fled the scene,” says Mosia. Mosia says, “I think the information he (Ndlovu) gave to me, he received the information on his arrival. I think so.” “The only information I usually seek (when I arrived at a crime scene), is the summary of incident and the time it happened.” Trial proceedings below: 