Human Settlements Minister, Mmamoloko Kubayi says funds have already been allocated to start rebuilding houses destroyed by heavy downpours and floods in KwaZulu-Natal. The death toll has climbed to 395. Meanwhile, officials say homes have been ravaged and roads swept away in Durban. There have been fears of the crisis worsening in the province, as more rain is expected. Kubayi and some other ministers, are in KZN assessing the damage caused by the devastating floods. Briefing the media in Durban Kubayi said they will ensure that no funds will be misused. “In terms of the national housing finance corporation, we have already allocated R150 million to be able to intervene but again we will receive a contribution of R2 million from the corporation’s social investment responsibility, which will be assisting in terms of the social needs of our community. For NHFC, we do have the capacity in terms of project management to assist the province with rebuilding and reconstruction of the houses in the province.” Kubayi says her department will start providing temporary houses for those affected by floods from Tuesday next week. “We have started redirecting the funds. As we’ve gone to the communities, we found some of the mud houses that have collapsed and now we have prioritised removing the mud houses from Tuesday. The temporary houses are starting to move on site to be able to provide relief for those in the halls. We will need land from the municipality. The work we are doing is temporal, where we find glitches we will report back to communities and South Africans at large.” KZN FLOODS | Government sets aside R150 million for the reconstruction of housing:  Nelson Mandela Foundation has pledged to provide relief aid to victims of floods in KwaZulu-Natal. The floods in that area have been declared a provincial disaster. More than 395 people have died during serious flooding there, this week. Thousands more have been affected by the damage caused. The South African Weather Service has issued yet another alert of possible disruptive rains that could lead to localised flooding in some areas of KZN. Nelson Mandela Foundation Chief Executive, Sello Hatang, has called on all South Africans to assist floods victims in any way possible. “The team is there. The team from IT labs and they been meeting with traditional leaders to understand where the greatest needs are and to help where they can. We will be in Durban ourselves in KZN from Imbumba Foundation and also Old Mutual Foundation with the Collen Mashawane Foundation – these four foundations will be there together. To go there, we are starting off in areas most hit. The need is so big and we cannot manage just the four foundations and that’s why we are asking the South Africans to live up to what the theme of Mandela Day is for this year. Do what you can with what you have. And in this case, we should all put our efforts into KZN.” KZN FLOODS | Nelson Mandela Foundation joins in on the aid: 