Former African National Congress (ANC) chairperson Peter Mokaba region, who was also the executive mayor of the Capricorn district municipality, has joined the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF). Lawrence Mapoulo was officially welcomed by the EFF provincial convener Mbuyiseni Ndlozi at the party’s offices in Polokwane on Tuesday. Mapoulo is from Seshego, the home of EFF president Julius Malema. He served the ANC in various positions for 40 years. He was the ANC’s chairperson of the Peter Mokaba region more than a decade ago. He also served as the mayor of the Capricorn District Municipality until he was removed from the position in 2014. Mapoulo has stated that he is not interested in any positions of leadership. He claims he left the ANC due to what he considers to be ill-discipline. “I don’t entertain the question of position myself. I carried many positions I don’t care about positions. What I care about is programme of this organ and make sure that we have one million members. We have discipline members. I’m here to make sure that discipline shouldn’t fall the commander in chief never persuaded me, we are a family, first of all, you must remember.” Corruption Mapoulo also accuses the ANC of corruption. “Believe comrade I can’t spend that time without observing that the thing that I’m currently raiding is dead that there’s no discipline you, you’re the host people who can tell us more stories about the ill-discipline and corruption that is happening every day the ANC is no longer alive.” EFF provincial convener, Mbuyiseni Ndlozi, says Mapoulo is joining the party at the right time as they are in the process of reviving the organisation. “We welcome him into the EFF. The president and the commander in chief is the one that personally recruited him. As a province, we just want to really mark this as an important moment for us. He comes to the movement when we are reviving the EFF in Limpopo, is a statement of confidence in this very process of reviving the organisation.” ANC spokesperson in Limpopo, Donald Selamolela, says he is saddened by Mapoulo’s departure but says their campaign to renew the ANC might not be acceptable to some members. “We are very sad that we have lost a cadre of his calibre. But we however mindful and we note this particular insinuation as we move forward, we will continue as the ANC as we move forward with our unity project we know that not everyone will fit into this renewal and this unity project.” Mampoulo leaves the ANC a few months before the party holds its provincial elective congress. The party tweeted the news on Tuesday morning: The EFF is elated to welcome into its ranks the membership of Fighter Mmakgabo Lawrence Mapoulo. Fighter Mapoulo is one of the most decorated political leaders and activists in Limpopo province. Ayikhule! #eff1millionmembershipcampaign pic.twitter.com/A1Y7qgQGbD — Economic Freedom Fighters (@EFFSouthAfrica) April 19, 2022 