The body of a six-year-old boy, Thandolwethu Ngidi has been retrieved at Ngxongweni village near Port St Johns in the Eastern Cape. Ngidi drowned while crossing a flooded river on Tuesday afternoon during heavy rains. The other affected local municipalities are Mngquma and Mbhashe. The OR Tambo District Municipality Disaster and Risk Management team continues to check for more damages caused by torrential rains. Government authorities visited areas that are affected by the recent floods in Port St Johns. One of the visited families is that of six-year-old Ngidi. A member of the family, Ntsikelelo Ntshiza says they will struggle with the burial. “This is very painful. He was looking after gogo. Gogo did not want them to go to school on Tuesday when it was raining. They escaped when she was in the rondavel. What was painful was not finding the boy. We are happy the government arrived and we found the boy’s body. We have been searching since Tuesday. The challenge here at home will be the funeral,” says Ntshiza. Residents of Port St Johns in the Eastern Cape displaced by floods: MEC for COGTA Xolile Nqatha visited Thandolwethu Ngidi’s family and promised to assist them. “I’m glad that the body has been recovered by police and wish to take this opportunity to convey words of condolences on behalf of the government to this family and other families who lost their loved ones in other municipalities like Ntabankulu and other municipalities in the province as a result of this disaster,” says Nqatha. Port St Johns Mayor Nomvuzo Mlombilo Cingo has promised to assist the family even after the funeral. “Looking at the way the home is, it tells us that as government we need to take care of whatever it is that needs to be done. That’s why we said to MEC for Cogta, Social Development and MEC for Human Settlement must come on board so that they can see what they can do. We want to pledge that as the municipality are going to be with them,” says the mayor. She says Gift of the Givers has assisted people that are affected by the floods in town and will offer more assistance in other wards. 10-year-old boy drowns following the floods in the Port St Johns area: