The ANC Youth League in Dr Ruth Segomotsi Mompati District in North West has called for the removal of municipal manager of Kagisano Molopo Local Municipality in Ganyesa near Vryburg. The league has accused him of sowing divisions in the municipal council. They also say he was recently behind the removal of a mayor and speaker, through a motion of no confidence by the council. Earlier this week, the North West High Court nullified a council resolution to elect a new Speaker and the removal of the mayor through a motion of no confidence. There has been a tug-of-war in the Kagisano Molopo Municipal Council following local government elections last year. It’s alleged that there has not been any proper council sitting for the past five months. The ANCYL in Dr Ruth Segomotsi Mompati has put the blame squarely on the incumbent municipal manager, Olaotse Bojosinyana. According to the league, both motions of no confidence against the mayor and the Speaker were instigated by Bojosinyana. The league also accused Bojosinyane of maladministration and corruption. Co-ordinator for ANCYL in Dr Ruth Segomotsi Mompati, Gopolang Molale says, “So, as the ANC Youth League, we cannot be undermined to this extent by a person who we thought is a legal practitioner, but undermining the rules of law and turning the institution into chaos because he is at the centre of what is happening in that municipality and we cannot restore any unity, peace or stability in that institution while the man is still there. So, as the ANCYL, we are calling for the immediate suspension and that MM must be stripped off the roll of advocacy. He remains a disgrace to the law society.” However, Municipal Manager of Kagisano Molopo Local Municipality, Olaotse Bojosinyana, says ANCYL’s allegations against him are baseless. “If they want to remove me or they want to make an application for my name to be removed unfortunately they will not get that one right because I am a non-practicing attorney. I am on a list of non-practicing attorneys and am not executing the duties of an attorney. But in that particular regard, (the) confusion they are talking about … it’s a non-issue and at the same time, it’s something which one cannot try.” Furthermore, the Young Communist League in the province says the recent developments in the Kagisano Molopo Local Municipality are simply a ploy by those who are against the deployment of young people in leadership positions. “This is a push back campaign against the Motsha Palong initiative which the ANC in the North West has fully embraced in deploying young people to various positions of authority in many municipalities. There is a generational battle with in the ANC that some that are older are fighting the deployment of young people.” MEC for the Department of Co-operative Governance in the province, Lenah Miga, says the situation prevailing in the Kagisano Molopo Municipality is very disappointing. “We are really disappointed that it seems as if the municipality is starting to lose focus where in our view their focuses are supposed to be providing services to the community of Kagisano Molopo.” MEC Miga has urged the municipality to focus on providing service delivery to the community.