Community leaders in Niani, outside Musina in Limpopo, are concerned about the continued illegal cutting down of Mopani trees. The area is one of Limpopo’s biodiversity hotspots and has been preserving the trees for years. Some community members, however, continue to chop down the indigenous plant as their livelihood depends on selling its firewood. Commonly known as the butterfly tree. The Mopani tree grows in humid and low-lying areas like Niani. It’s host to the famous Mopani worms, consumed as a treat and also used as an ingredient in some traditional African dishes. For years, Mopani worms have been an economic lifeline for many unemployed people. The de-bushing of the trees may spell doom for those whose livelihood depends on them. “We are concerned because this Mopani tree is important for us as it raises our economy in terms of the worms as we know that the worms are eaten by people all over the world, hence a bag of mopani worms these days can cost about a thousand rands. Hence if our, my gogo can be able to sell them they can raise some funds so that can be able to go school.” Another concerned community leader, Eric Mandiwana, says the possible disappearance of the Mopani trees may also be disastrous for the area famous for livestock rearing. “Cutting down this tree is not right because it protects the grazing lands for our livestock because we our economy depend of our livestock it also gives them shade. Even scientists know this tree is very important.” Spokesperson for Limpopo Department of Environmental Affairs, Zaid Kalla has warned of the harmful effects of climate change caused by deforestation. “We have floods in some parts of the wording caused by changing weather. This is in some part due to us failing to sustain our environment should the people of Niani continue with the chopping of the Mopani tree, they will suffer the consequences emerging from soil erosion as well as changes in weather patens.” Kalla is urging residents in Niani to respect and sustain the Mopani trees for the benefit of future generations.