A dispute has arisen at the African National Congress’ (ANC) eThekwini regional conference as to whether members of the regional task team should be allowed to cast a ballot in the election of the new leadership. In a closely contested leadership race, representatives of the two slates monitored the verification of each delegate to establish if they are allowed to vote. eThekwini is the ANC’s biggest region in the province. The two slates are led by former mayor Zandile Gumede and Thabani Nyawose. Conference convenor Kwazi Mshengu says KwaZulu-Natal has decided that task teams won’t vote, but an objection has now been raised, that it is the case in Mpumalanga province. “As we are about to start we should be able to open for a short period for further discussions and clarities and we think we will be able to prevail on the conference. Ultimately, it must be the people of this region who are to benefit from the conference so we can’t allow it to collapse. We will be pleading to the conscience of cadres to say, now at some point, they must lose themselves for the organisation to exist. That’s the point we are in now but we think we will be able to complete at least half the business of the conference, which will include voting,” says Mshengu. Update on the second day of ANC’s eThekwini regional conference Mshengu says going forward, the ANC’s National Executive Committee should take a decision on whether members of task teams leading regions after the term of office has expired, should be allowed to vote in elective conferences. “We are worried it’s going to make the ANC appear like a federal organisation because there’s no national decision. What national must do beyond these conferences is to take a clear-cut decision from now henceforth that task teams are voting or they are not voting. What cannot happen is that KZN be bound by a decision by Mpumalanga,” says Mshengu. Political analyst Xolani Dube on ANC’s eThekwini regional conference Its day two of the #ANC eThekwini regional conference. Delegates supporting of former eThekwini mayor Zandile Gumede in high spirits.#sabcnews pic.twitter.com/6kl2WYYm2Q — Simphiwe makhanya (@Simphiwemakha) April 10, 2022 