Two people have been killed and six others injured in two separate road crashes in Limpopo. The crashes happened on Thursday night as hundreds of motorists travel to various destinations in the province for the Easter long weekend. In the first accident, a passenger died when the vehicle the person was travelling in had a tyre burst and overturned on the N1. In the second crash, the driver of a car died after his vehicle overturned, following a collision with another vehicle on the R510 road near Northam. High compliance levels on roads ahead of Easter weekend:  The City of Tshwane and its Metro Police Unit pledged on Thursday to cut road fatalities by up to 15% over the Easter weekend. Tshwane Metro Police and SAPS are manning a roadblock on the N1 north, which connects Limpopo and Gauteng, near Hammanskraal, north of Pretoria. Poor road conditions Motorists travelling through the Free State over the Easter weekend have been warned about poor road conditions. Free State Police, Roads and Transport MEC, William Bulwane, has urged road users to be cautious on the roads this long weekend as many roads are riddled with potholes due to recent heavy rains.. The province’s road network connects six other provinces including the Northern Cape, Eastern Cape and Gauteng. Traffic volumes are expected to increase on major roads over the coming days. Traffic reprot from Thursday afternoon on the N1 Limpopo Bound  President urges South Africans to reach out in prayer Meanwhile, President Cyril Ramaphosa has urged South Africans to reach out in prayer and material assistance this Easter to the people of KwaZulu-Natal who have been badly affected by the flooding in their province. The President made the comments in his Easter message to the nation. Ramaphosa says South Africa is standing with the people of KwaZulu-Natal during this difficult time. President @CyrilRamaphosa wishes all South Africans well for the Easter holiday period, and urges all faith communities to reach out in prayer and material assistance to communities in KwaZulu-Natal who have been affected by devastating #KZNFloods. https://t.co/9WKqnrTLn9 pic.twitter.com/FSJNGEgeVI — Presidency | South Africa  (@PresidencyZA) April 14, 2022 