Corruption, ego, arrogance, and self-enrichment are some of the biggest enemies facing the liberation movement today. This emerged at the 29th Anniversary commemorating the death of Chris Hani. Many of the leaders who took to the podium acknowledged that much of the problems the movement is facing are self-inflicted, including the poor performance of the African National Congress (ANC) in the November local government elections. They want leaders of the movement to emulate Hani’s values and to honour him by improving the lives of the poor. Hani was assassinated outside his Dawn park home in Boksburg, east of Johannesburg, on the 10th of April 1993. 29th Annual commemoration of the death of SACP General-Secretary Chris Hani  No full disclosure 29-years since Chris Hani’s assassination 29-years since Chris Hani was assassinated in cold blood. The South African Communist Party (SACP) says there has been no full disclosure of the truth and the circumstances surrounding the assassination. Polish immigrant Janusz Walus and Clive Derby-Lewis, who has since died, were arrested and sentenced to life imprisonment for Hani’s murder. Walus has been denied parole ever since he applied for it. Chris Hani’s murderer granted parole [ March 2016]  Chris Hani’s killer Clive Derby-Lewis has died [November 2016]  Noxolo Grootboom relives Chris Hani’s death   Nzimande: Who took the Z88 pistol from the military? SACP leader, Blade Nzimande says only the truth will bring closure for the Hani family, his organisation the SACP and the country. “Who? We are still asking, took the Z88 pistol from the military armoury during the apartheid era for the assassins to use to assassinate Chris. Whose hands did the murder weapon go through,” asks Nzimande. Limpho Hani on access to education and healthcare in SA Chris Hani’s wife, Limpho Hani says her husband dedicated his entire life to the struggle to ensure that black people have access to better paying jobs, education, land and live a life of dignity. She says it pains her to see children studying under trees, using pit toilets and crossing raging floods in rural areas because there are no bridges. “Now when it rains, children drown, parents cannot get their SASSA (South African Social Security Agency) money, nobody can see the doctor. I strongly feel that should be made a priority,” says Limpho Hani.  Workers’ right Chris Hani also fought for workers’ rights. First Deputy-President of the  Congress of South African Trade Unions (Cosatu), Mike Shingange says these rights are gradually being undermined. “The rights of workers to be protected in the workplace. The rights of workers to collective bargaining are continuously being reversed. We can’t do so on the grave and on the life of and on the shoulders of comrade Chris. This must continuously remind us that this is not the country and the freedom that comrade Chris fought for,” says Shingange. YCL on unemployment in SA The Young Communist League (YCL) says now is not the time to mourn Hani, but to ask critical questions facing the country. YCL’s Tinyiko Ntini says it’s important that youth unemployment is seriously tackled to ensure that young people do not lose patience with government. “We have said through the National Development Plan that by 2030 we want to see unemployment being at 6% and this shows just us that indeed it is a dream because now unemployment is above 50%. So we need to pull our socks up,” says Ntini.  ‘We need to be fighting divisions and factions’: Radebe ANC heavyweight, Jeff Radebe says the current democratic dispensation owes its existence to the struggle waged by Hani and other freedom fighters. He says there are many lessons that the current crop of leaders could learn from the life of Hani. “He never sought personal glory, he sought to serve the undivided movement for the total emancipation of all South Africans. As his movement fights against itself, and is dominated by clique’s and infighting, Chris is very sad that his beloved organisation is ripping itself apart. In his honour we need to be fighting divisions and factions,” says Radebe.  Mantashe on ego and arrogance Minerals Resource and Energy Minister Gwede Mantashe, representing government, says ego, selfishness and arrogance have become impediments to progress. “Ego is so big and ego manifest in few ways, that is is me, me, me,” says Mantashe. “Two, it’s arrogance. You look down on others. Destructive engagement. When you engage you don’t extract ideas, you seek to destroy the next person and win the argument,” adds Mantashe. SACP, COSATU and the ANC National Conferences The SACP, COSATU and the ANC are all going to be holding their National Conferences this year with the SACP conference taking place in July. Nzimande has urged delegates not to use their conference to create divisions and factions within the alliance movement. “Lets use our conferences to reflect on what happened on local government elections last year. And reflect honestly and correct what needs to be corrected. There is no revolution that does not make mistakes,” says Nzimande. 