The first witness in the murder trial of former Orlando Pirates and Bafana Bafana goalkeeper, Senzo Meyiwa, has told the High Court in Pretoria that arrangements were made to preserve the crime scene. State witness Sergeant Thabo Mosia arrived at the crime scene at midnight on the day of the shooting, took photos and prepared the sketch plan. He returned to the crime scene the following morning with other police officials, the court heard on Tuesday. Meyiwa was gunned down at the home of his girlfriend’s mother in Vosloorus, east of Johannesburg, in 2014. Here’s Sergeant Mosia being cross-examined: Lawyer: When you arrived the next morning with Lt Col Mhlalo, can you just explain to the court what was the position regarding the preservation of the scene? Witness: The crime scene tape was still there and I think the scene was being protected, my Lord.” SABC News’ Hasina Gori is reporting from Pretoria High Court:  Allegations of ill-treatment On Monday, advocate Malesela Teffo for one of the accused threatened to take the Department of Correctional Services to court. This was over the alleged assault and ill-treatment of Mthobisi Mncube who was transferred from the Johannesburg Prison to the Kgosi Mampuru Maximum facility in Pretoria. This was despite a department official telling the court that they had the legal right to keep him there. Below is the live stream:  Meanwhile, Correctional Services doctors say they did not find any physical injuries on Mncube. Giving the court feedback on the matter, prosecutor, advocate George Baloyi told the court an investigation on the matter is ongoing. “The doctors’ report indicated [that] there are no physical injuries. The head of the correctional services contacted the station commander of the central police station to dispatch SAPS officials to afford Mr Mncube the opportunity to open a case as requested. Indeed a case was opened, and there’s also an investigating officer allocated to the matter. There’s also an internal investigation that is ongoing and has not been finalised yet.”