Convicted killer and former police officer, Rosemary Nomia Ndlovu, is on Wednesday morning expected to be back in court where she will face charges for plotting to murder two police officers. Ndlovu will appear at the Kempton Park Magistrate’s Court. The charges she currently faces include plotting the murder of Sergeant Benneth Mabunda and Colonel Nthipe Boloka. Mabunda was the investigating officer in Ndlovu’s case while Boloka was the station commander at the police station where she worked. Six life sentences Last year, the High Court sitting in Palm Ridge handed the former police officer six life sentences for murder, attempted murder, defeating the ends of justice and fraud. BREAKING: Nomia Ndlovu found guilty! “The following order is made. The accused is found guilty on Count 1 of murder of Madala Homu, 2, murder of Audrey Ndlovu, 3 – Hangwani Mabasa, 9 – Zanele Motha, 10 – Mayeni Mashaba and 12 – Brilliant Mashego.” #SABCNews #rosemaryndlovu pic.twitter.com/Pg1iqCrUud — Sipho King K Kekana (@KingKAzania) October 22, 2021  Ndlovu killed six of her relatives and benefitted from insurance claims to the value of over R1.4-million. The murders Ndlovu has been found guilty of: The former police officer was arrested in 2018 following a sting operation which ultimately led to her being caught on camera while allegedly detailing what she wanted to be done by the alleged hitmen when they kill her sister Joyce and her five children. During cross-examination, state prosecutor, Rianna Williams told the court that she was in possession of cellphone records, which proved that Ndlovu made multiple calls to two alleged hitmen, one of whom was an undercover police officer, known as Mr. Dlamini. In a secretly recorded video, Ndlovu can be seen and heard telling Mr. Dlamini to burn Joyce and her five kids leaving behind no witnesses so that they could cash in on insurance policies. The accused is also found guilty on count 3, 4, 5, 6 and 8 “that is of defeating the ends of justice, fraud on Clientele, One Life, Assupol, and Old Mutual” insurance companies.” #SABCNews #rosemaryndlovu pic.twitter.com/6kmhwXNIuP — Sipho King K Kekana (@KingKAzania) October 22, 2021  In the video below, Nomia Ndlovu’s conviction welcomed: -Additional reporting by Sipho Kekana