Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga has once again reiterated the importance of the foundation phase for the development of children. Motshekga was speaking at Freedom Park in Pretoria where the Department of Social Development handed over the Early Childhood Development (ECD) function to the Department of Basic Education. The symbolic hand-over of the #ECDFunction has been done. All administrative processes and milestones have already been met to ensure a seamless transition. From today the DBE is responsible to support, subsidise and regulate ECD programmes. pic.twitter.com/tFIuVt0GXz — Dep. Basic Education (@DBE_SA) April 1, 2022  The handover comes as a response to President Cyril Ramaphosa’s announcement during the 2019 State of the Nation Address, that the responsibility for ECD centres would switch hands between the two departments. Motshekga says they have been working tirelessly for a seamless transition. “There is no way of building a better future than focusing on and reinforcing the early foundation. We do believe that early childhood education is the foundation for development and for growth. Today marks a high point as we follow our peers worldwide by moving ECD from social development to basic education.” “The ECD function shift will be doomed without involving civil society, the corporate sector, religious organisations, non-governmental organisations, and parents. Its success depends on our collective understanding to achieve universal and equitable access to quality ECDs.” pic.twitter.com/9m2MzJb3oK — Dep. Basic Education (@DBE_SA) April 1, 2022  Fixing education starts with foundation phase Gauteng Premier David Makhura says fixing the country’s education system has to start with the foundation phase. In his address at the inaugural primary school summit in Randburg back in March 2020, Makhura said research shows that there are major gaps in the foundation phase of the schooling system. He said it does not help to be among the best performing provinces when it comes to matric results, while little attention is being paid to the lower grades. The premier said if children are well taught while still young, and with the introduction of technology-related subjects, this will benefit the country in the long run. 