The people in the house in which former Orlando Pirates and Bafana Bafana goalkeeper, Senzo Meyiwa was shot delayed in reporting the matter to the police. That is according to the state witness, Thabo Mosia, during his cross-examination by Advocate Malesela Teffo at the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria. “I think the victims of the crime scene are the ones who delayed to report the matter due to the fact that they had to take the victim to hospital,” says Mosia. The spotlight was cast on the amount of time between the time Senzo Meyiwa was shot and the time the first forensic expert arrived on the scene during the soccer star’s murder trial. The amount of time between the time #SenzoMeyiwa was shot and the time the first forensic expert arrived on the scene has come under scrutiny during Thabo Mosia’s cross-examination in the #SenzoMeyiwatrial at the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria. #SABCNews pic.twitter.com/n7Y2y7IgH9 — Sipho King K Kekana (@KingKAzania) April 26, 2022  According to Mosia’s testimony, he received a call from Brigadier Ndlovu, who informed him of a shooting incident that had taken place around 20h00 on the 26th of October in 2014, at a house in Vosloorus involving former the Bafana Bafana goalkeeper. According to Mosia, who boasts 16-years of experience in the police force and considers himself a forensic expert, he arrived at the scene 20 minutes after midnight, about four hours after the shooting had taken place. Mosia was asked as to whether during the four hours that he took to arrive at the scene the crime scene could have been tampered with. “I do not suspect any tampering,” says Mosia. He has pointed out to what he thought indicated there was indeed a scuffle in the house. “By noticing a walking stick on the floor and the hat on the floor that could tell there was a scuffle in the house as I have explained,” he says. The originality of the information Mosia has was also questioned. Mosia says he didn’t interview anyone in the house but relied on the information of Brigadier Ndlovu who was the senior of police officers who were on the scene. “According to information I got, two African males (arrived). One entered while the other remained outside. The suspected in the house demanded money, a scuffle in the kitchen ensued, and(Kelly) Khumalo ran to the bedroom. The suspect tried to push open the door. During the scuffle a shot went off and the suspect fled the scene,” says Mosia. Mosia says, “I think the information he (Ndlovu) gave to me, he received the information on his arrival. I think so.” “The only information I usually seek (when I arrived at a crime scene), is the summary of incident and the time it happened.” Trial proceedings below:  Mosia was not aware of the time Brigadier Ndlovu had arrived on the scene. Earlier he told the court when he returned to the crime scene in Vosloorus the day after the night of the murder, he felt “the scene was being protected.” Mosia, who took to the stand on Monday, is continuing with testimony, giving details of how, what, and who he found at the scene as well as how he collected the evidence. Mosia, one of the first police officers on the scene and the first forensic expert to arrive on scene, has told the court that he found a projectile (front part of the bullet) on top of the kitchen unit behind the glass jar, indicating that it had changed direction after hitting the kitchen door, bullet jacket, a silver walking stick and hat on the floor, all of which form part of the evidence in the case. After years of not much progress reported on Meyiwa’s murder case, the NPA, in 2020, announced a breakthrough in the investigation when Muzi Sibiya, Bongani Sandiso Ntanzi, Mthobisi Prince Mncube, Mthokoziseni Ziphozonnke Maphisa, and Sifisokuhle Ntuli were charged with Meyiwa’s murder, attempted murder of other witnesses, robbery with aggravating circumstances, unlawful possession of a firearms, and possession of ammunition. On Friday, all five pleaded not guilty to all the charges.