eThekwini Mayor, Mxolisi Kaunda has commended President Cyril Ramaphosa for visiting flood-stricken KwaZulu-Natal. The province will receive about one billion rand from the national department of human settlements after thousands of houses were destroyed during the floods this week. The death toll has climbed to 395. Weather experts have warned that there’s more extreme weather anticipated and disaster hit areas in Kwa Zulu Natal must likely brace for more. Kaunda says as provincial government will do whatever it takes to rebuild the province but have limited resources and that is why national government’s assistance is welcome. Kaunda says they welcome the financial assistance from  national government. KZN FLOODS | Government sets aside R150 million for the reconstruction of housing:  Briefing the media in Durban Human Settlements Minister, Mmamoloko Kubayi  said they will ensure that no funds will be misused. “In terms of the national housing finance corporation, we have already allocated R150 million to be able to intervene but again we will receive a contribution of R2 million from the corporation’s social investment responsibility, which will be assisting in terms of the social needs of our community. For NHFC, we do have the capacity in terms of project management to assist the province with rebuilding and reconstruction of the houses in the province.” Kubayi says her department will start providing temporary houses for those affected by floods from Tuesday next week. “We have started redirecting the funds. As we’ve gone to the communities, we found some of the mud houses that have collapsed and now we have prioritised removing the mud houses from Tuesday. The temporary houses are starting to move on site to be able to provide relief for those in the halls. We will need land from the municipality. The work we are doing is temporal, where we find glitches we will report back to communities and South Africans at large.” Joint media briefing by ministers on KZN interventions amid floods 