ANC President Cyril Ramaphosa has congratulated the newly elected leadership of the ruling party in Mpumalanga. He says this is a good trend set by the province that a conference of the ANC can be peaceful and fruitful in the name of unity and renewal of the party. The build-up to the conference was marred by challenges, with branches taking time to have their meetings, including some ANC members threatening to halt the conference through court processes. But the conference took place as planned without any hindrances. The past weekend has been termed historic and successful, following three days of deliberations by ANC members from across Mpumalanga, who came to attend the 13th provincial elective conference of the party. It is where Mandla Ndlovu was elected as the new Chairperson, with his Deputy Speedy Mashilo and Vusi Chirwa taking the reigns as Secretary and Lindiwe Ntshalintshali as his Deputy. Mandla Msibi, who’s facing murder charges, is the new Treasurer of the ANC in Mpumalanga. Ramaphosa praised the province In closing the conference, Ramaphosa says, “Congratulations to Mpumalanga for setting a good example for what should be a trend in the upcoming provincial conferences of the ANC across the country.” “As branches, you have expressed your will…to be filled with this spirit of renewal.” Ramaphosa has called on delegates gathered in eMalahleni to remain “focused” and not be distracted by the party’s internal squabbles. He says the issue of power and access to resources will have detrimental effects on the ANC if it’s not addressed. Ramaphosa has called on the ANC in Mpumalanga to carefully reflect on the issue of “step aside” as part of the ANC national elective conference resolutions of 2017. He was reacting to the election of Mandla Msibi as the party’s Treasurer in the province, even though he’s facing a double murder charge at the High Court in Nelspruit. He couldn’t be at the conference over the weekend, because he had stepped aside after he was officially charged. Ramaphosa says this will need to be addressed vigorously by the newly elected leadership and the ANC branches. He says this forms part of the renewal project in the ANC. “You took the step of yes, endorsing and electing one of the comrades who is facing charges. Now, I know that you have reflected on this and you’re going to do further reflections. This matter does need your reflection as a disciplined member of this organisation. Your reflection must be based on the decisions that have been taken by our national conference.” Now, the Eastern Cape will be next to hold its provincial elective conference, towards the end of this month. ANC President Cyril Ramaphosa officially closes the 13th Mpumalanga elective conference: 