Kaizer Chiefs coach Stuart Baxter has conceded his team will not win the league title this season. Amakhosi are trailing log leaders Mamelodi Sundowns by a whopping 18 points, but have three matches in hand to the log leaders. Chiefs will meet SuperSport United in a league match at FNB Stadium on Saturday at 19:30. Wednesday morning’s training session in preparation for Saturday’s #DStvPrem clash against SuperSport United #Amakhosi4Life pic.twitter.com/qEPLIy2aUa — Kaizer Chiefs (@KaizerChiefs) April 13, 2022  Chiefs can still realistically catch Sundowns and win the league this season. The PSL champions are on 57 points from 25 matches, while Amakhosi are on 39 points from 22 matches. Only three teams Chiefs, Royal AM and Cape Town City can still mathematically win the league. But Chiefs coach Stuart Baxter is gunning for the second position, which will guarantee CAF champions league spot. “You have got your goals and your ambition is to finish as high as possible, if it’s possible. For us to finish in the second place … we want to finish second. We don’t want to accept third.” Chiefs lost to Egyptian giants Al Ahly in the CAF Champions league final last year. Veteran Bernard Parker is also targetting second spot to play in the champions league. Chiefs have been blowing hot and cold this season, and their loyal fans are not happy with their favourite team.
Many Chiefs faithfuls have also accused Baxter of not believing in young players. But the Englishman says you can’t build new a team with young players. “I don’t think you can build a new team around new players. I think you have to bring new players in a correct way. We have some talented young players here and I have always been a coach that bloods young players.” Amakhosi will miss key player Keagan Dolly due to suspension. Baxter says some players are also doubtful due to various injuries. “Keagan Dolly is not available because he is suspended. We have got the normal injuries. We have got a few that are not sick, but they have been a bit dodgy this week with their health. So, we had Brandon off for a few days.” The country’s most supported club will welcome its fans to the stadium for the first time since the fans are allowed to attend at 50% capacity. Youngster Nkosingiphile Ngcobo is looking forward to having fans back. “Obviously, it has been a tough the past two years without the fans at the stadium. We know that extra energy that they give us, but we are happy now that they are coming back and we are going to get that energy again.” Meanwhile, Interim Supersport coach Andre Arendse will have a baptism of fire after his team fired coach Kaitano Tembo midweek. Chiefs have not played in more than a week. Arendse says the rustiness might work in their favour, but fans could be a challenge. “A bit of a plus and a negative for us. I suppose in a sense that they haven’t played for so long, we can only hope that there is a bit of rustiness in there, but at the same time, it has given them a bit of opportunity to rest players and plan for the game in a proper way. So (it is) difficult in a way you look at it! Challenge No.: 2 is the fans. When you play Chiefs you are expecting a capacity stadium to what it allows due to the COVID condition.” Amazulu will host Maritzburg United in a Kwazulu Natal derby on Saturday. Usuthu coach Brandon Truter believes his team will win the derby. “I still think Maritzburg is a very good team with the coach they have. Tactically, they are very organised and also looking at their log position, they are in danger and it’s difficult playing teams in the bottom half this time of the season. It’s going to be a very tough game, but the boys are prepared. It’s the KZN derby. I back my boys to get a win, but the last three derbies have ended in a draw.” Cape Town City will also host in-form Royal AM at Cape Town Stadium on Saturday, City coach Eric Tinkler says the KZN team is very stubborn. “I think obviously a tough game against a team that is in very, very good form, currently lying second in the league. I think John Maduka has done a very good job since he has been there, and what they have proven is (they are) a very stubborn team to score against. Majority of the team that have played against them have created majority of the chances, have got more possession than them, but they have somehow managed to get the results” Meanwhile, Sekhukhune United will host TS Galaxy in Tembisa on Saturday, and Stellenbosh will visit Chippa United on Sunday.