SABC News’ Tshepiso Moche reports on related tech developments in South Africa and globally. In this edition, he looks at the first online learning platform for primary school mathematics teachers. The South African Mathematics Foundation (SAMF) has launched an online learning platform for primary school mathematics teachers. According to SAMF, the online course is attended by 399 primary school teachers. The Primary Teacher Mathematics Problem-Solving courses started earlier this month Retired mathematics lecturer at University of Stellenbosch, Alwyn Olivier and academic coordinator of the SAMF’s primary school teacher development programme, Dr Erna Lampen, both developed the course content. This is a free-to-attend online learning programme. Olivier says the aimed of the course is to improve teachers’ problem-solving skills and their way of doing mathematics. “The SAMC questions are aimed at conceptual knowledge, applying knowledge in new situations, problem-solving, reasoning, communication, and general mathematical thinking,” explains Olivier. The course also seeks to equip primary school teachers with skills that will help learners approach maths differently. “After thorough training, we are confident in their abilities to support primary school teachers to develop their own problem-solving know-how and attitudes.” Applications for the second intake of primary school mathematics teachers will start in May. The second course runs from 18 July until the end of August. Below are the levels of the course: Primary (Grades 4 – 7)
Learning about problem solving (strategies, specialisation and generalisation, induction and deduction). Medium through which the course is presented is through problem solving, i.e. teachers learn to solve problems by problem solving. The end objective is that teachers will enter and prepare their learners for the South African Mathematics Challenge. GET Level 1
Introduction to problem solving strategies; offered to all teachers who are doing the course for the first time. GET Level 2
Offered to all teachers who have passed GET Level 1 or FET Level 1. The course comprises of the Junior Second Round questions of the South African Mathematics Olympiad and involves a range of problem solving strategies. GET Level 3
Offered to all teachers who have passed GET Level 1, GET Level 2 or FET Level 1. FET Level 1
Offered to all teachers who have passed GET Level 1. The course comprises of the Senior First Round questions of the South African Mathematics Olympiad and involves a range of problem solving strategies. Meanwhile, teacher who successfully complete the course will receive their certificates. SAMF says all levels are endorsed by the South African Council of Educators and can be used for continuous professional development.