Animal rescue organisations in Durban are appealing to people to be vigilant if they see lost or stray animals in their communities. As mudslides and heavy rains poured down on informal and formal dwellings last week, it’s left people and their animals stranded. As mudslides, gale-force winds and torrential rains battered homes across Durban last week, families in formal and informal dwellings found themselves in danger. Many have taken shelter in community halls and schools functioning as temporary shelters. It is also the four-legged family members the beloved pets who have been affected. Many were separated from their families. While some have been reunited, for the large majority, their hope is to be fostered by new homes. Phoenix Animal Care and Treatment, Animal rescuer, Neeri Naidoo says, “At least as human beings you’re able to articulate what you’re feeling and tell people. Animals are even more confused. We’ve had so many cases of them running around with leashes attached to them running into traffic. We’ve had so many knocked animals because they’re just totally lost. If you can just be a bit more vigilant of your surroundings and pay attention to animals running around, it is not normal, so please report them to your local welfare organisation or the SPCA.” Naidoo’s rescue shelter that she shares with Puppy SOS suffered severe flooding and will need funds to rebuild. Naidoo says, “During the storm, most of the premises were flooded in. “The puppy room was completely annihilated. Roofs caved in we are so grateful to God none of the animals got injured in this process. Our puppies sustained quite a shock but they’ve now recovered. We’ve had to cram in almost a hundred dogs between 2 bedrooms trying to clear out kennels coupled with the fact we now have to pick up these animals and we have nowhere to take them to. We immediately called on the general public to help us if they have any space in garages or a spare room.” Similarly, Barbara Patrick from Kloof and Highway SPCA branch says their offices and stables suffered flood damage. Patrick is appealing for donations to care for the additional animals who need care while their families get back on their feet. “We had a lot of calls coming in especially for people who had lost their homes and they needed to help with their animals, their pets. People at the moment had to focus on surviving themselves trying to protect their homes and their families. As much as they love their animals it was often difficult for them. We’ve had more calls now in the last couple of days than we’ve had previously. Farm animals compromised, on the beaches, there’s been a lot of animals washed up there a lot of snakes have been rescued.” VIDEO | Search and rescue operations underway in Durban: