Former Executive Director of Women in the United Nations, Dr Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka, says South Africa lacks the political will among its leaders to fight the social ills faced by society. She called on communities to pick up the baton in addressing the challenges they face on a daily basis. Mlambo-Ngcuka was a guest speaker at an event hosted by the Methodist Church in the Eastern Cape. The event was held to discuss the way forward, after the devastation brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic. She says the state of politics in the country is weakened by leaders who are incapable of leading. “Make sure your party is not dominated by amasela, amaxoki (sic), people who really don’t care for the needs of the people sometimes when people are desperate to be elected l get worried especially when they can’t explain why we must elect them what’s is this problem they want to  solve so as the people who are going to be governed we cannot laugh at this because a political joke will affect us.” Dr Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka urges politicians to prioritise the needs of people: South Africans urged to protect themselves against potential fifth wave by getting vaccinated Health Department Deputy DG, Nicholas Crisp, has urged South Africans to continue getting vaccinated and not wait for the current increase in COVID-19 infections to become a wave. Getting vaccinated is the best way to protect against severe illness and even death from COVID. South Africa has reported a notable increase in COVID cases, raising concerns that the country could be seeing the start of the fifth wave. The rise in cases appears to be linked to the new BA4 and BA5 Omicron sub-variants. The NICD indicated that the country’s coronavirus test positivity rate climbed to the highest in more than three months this week. Dr Crisp says the increase isn’t a cause for alarm. “We are seeing hospitalisations, we are seeing children being hospitalised, we’re seeing a lot of young people, the numbers are still small, of the people who are being admitted and it’s unvaccinated people. We’ve warned repeatedly that just thinking that you may have wild virus immunity because there’s wild virus immunity in the community is not sufficient. We don’t know how long those antibodies last, and we don’t know how protective they are.”