The Department of Education in the Northern Cape has put a Life Orientation school teacher at a Jan Kempdorp Primary School on precautionary suspension following allegations of sexual harassment levelled against him. The teacher allegedly asked a Grade 7 learner to touch his private parts. Parents of learners at a Northern Cape Primary School have been left shocked after the allegations of sexual harassment against the Life Orientation teacher. The teacher allegedly asked a 12-year-old, Grade 7 learner to kiss him and touch his private parts. The shocked learner reported the incident to her parents, who then reported the matter to the school principal. The learner’s aunt says the incident has left them angry as the family.  She says she wants the teacher to be removed and not be allowed to teach again. “I’ve got mixed emotions, that’s absurd, I’m angry. I want him removed from the school. If it was up to me, he would be totally removed from teaching, because no kid is safe around him. How can you say that to the child if you are a father figure? ” Another parent whose child goes to the same school says the teacher can no longer be trusted. “As a parent, the minute I heard about this teacher asking the young girl to touch his private parts, I was scared for my child because she’s very young. So, if it can happen to that child what about mine?” ‘Teacher must be removed’ Member of the Phokwane Action For Development Forum, Matthew Ndwanya says the teacher must be removed from the school. Ndwanya says, “We are really against what happened to the child and it’s being done by someone who is entrusted by the community, by the parents at large. Because teachers are regarded as parents when you not around. So, if the teacher can be unethical, and we as the forum we feel that the teacher must be removed.” Department spokesperson, Geoffrey van Der Merwe says they are investigating the allegations of sexual harassment against the teacher. Van Der Merwe says, “The Department of Education is investigating allegations of sexual harassment at the Jan Kempdorp Primary School. The department has a zero tolerance stance on all matters that relate to sexual harassment or inappropriate relationships between educators and learners. The department has placed the implicated educator on precautionary suspension until the investigation is completed. This is to ensure credible outcome without any interference in our investigations.” The parents of affected learner have welcomed the suspension of the teachers.