Women and children fleeing their homes, families separated, and the constant fear of the future is a trauma that risks destroying a generation. That was the message from the head of UN Women in a briefing to the Security Council focused on the impact of the conflict in Ukraine on women and children in particular. The Council heard that young women and unaccompanied teenagers were at particular risk of human trafficking, while reports of rape and sexual violence abound. The UN Children’s Fund (UNICEF) says nearly two-thirds of all Ukrainian children have been displaced, and forced to leave their homes, schools, and often their family members. UN Women on the impact of Russia-Ukraine conflict on women and children:  Kramatorsk train station was on Friday a scene of chaos. At least 57 people,  many women, and children – were killed in a missile strike as they were seeking to evacuate eastern Ukraine. UN Women condemned the attack while urging the Council to continue to use all avenues for peace – and a greater role for women in the pursuit thereof. “This Security Council has adopted ten resolutions calling for women to be meaningfully involved in any decisions or negotiations about peace and security, and we know that women’s involvement is both a right and an opportunity for better outcomes. This is especially important in a war that has so starkly illustrated gender-based differences. Let us not lose sight of this. I have seen first-hand the impact women´s leadership can have. Yet, women are largely absent from any current negotiation efforts. We ask this Security Council, all Member States, and our development and humanitarian partners, to ensure the meaningful participation of women and girls,” says Executive Director Sima Bahous. UN Security Council’s discussion on the risk of human trafficking as Ukraine-Russia conflict continues:  Risk of sexual violence and human trafficking Bahous – who returned Sunday night from meeting refugees in neighbouring Moldova, called on the Russian Federation to withdraw its troops from Ukraine’s territory immediately while urging greater support for countries in the region to bolster efforts to combat trafficking and sexual violence as she emphasised the need for a gender-sensitive response to the conflict – warning that the brutality displayed against Ukrainians had raised all red flags. “A war of this magnitude impacts the world far beyond the borders of Ukraine. I also heard from the Government in Moldova, and the border police, about a need for increased support to monitor border crossings. The risk of human trafficking is increasing as the situation becomes more desperate. Young women, and unaccompanied teenagers, are at particular risk.” UNICEF’s Emergency Programmes Director Manuel Fontaine, recently from a mission to Ukraine, said; “In my 31 years as a humanitarian, I have rarely seen so much damage caused in so little time.” He warns that of the 3.2 million children estimated to have remained in their homes in Ukraine, nearly half may be at risk of not having enough food while infrastructure damage, including water, sanitation, and power resources, has only added to their risk. “The situation is even worse in cities like Mariupol and Kherson, where children and their families have now gone weeks without running water and sanitation services, a regular supply of food, and medical care. They are sheltering in their homes and underground, waiting for the bombs and violence to stop. As of yesterday, OHCHR has verified that 142 children were killed and 229 children injured. We know these numbers are likely much higher and many of them were caused by crossfire or the use of explosive weapons in populated areas. “ Human Rights defenders in Ukraine accuse Russian troops of directly targeting civilians, including charges of kidnapping, torture, sexual violence, and death. “We do not want you to look at us only as victims of Russian military aggression. Women in the peace and security sector, volunteers, activists, journalists, and human rights defenders are an integral part of the progress and development in Ukraine. We have knowledge. We have skills, we have the expertise, and we have strength. But we need to be saved and protected now. We call to all members of the Security Council international institutions, the governments to stop the war and demonstrate your solidarity in the concrete and practical actions to find and to use the tools to stop Russian aggression,” says Kateryna Cherepakha, President of La Strada Ukraine. Russia continues to deny allegations that its targeting civilians while accusing Ukraine of using non-combatants as human shields. 