Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) Secretary-General Marshal Dlamini says a permanent solution must be found to address the poor living conditions of many victims of the KwaZulu-Natal floods. The party led by its leader Julius Malema, is visiting KwaMamSuthu in Clare Estate in Durban. Most of the informal dwellings near the river bank have been destroyed. Dlamini says proper housing is an urgent need. “We are here to listen to victims so that we can go back and try to come up with a permanent solution, but we can tell you without any doubt that the permanent solution on these issues that affect our majority of black people in the entire country, even what is happening in the Western Cape, here in KZN, until we resolve the issue of land everything else is a sideshow because where these people are staying they are staying on river banks because even low-cost houses have been built on a riverbank. It means it’s part of town planning.” [In Pictures]: SG @DlaminiMarshall speaking to the media ahead a visit by CIC @Julius_S_Malema in KZN. The CIC will today visit Ward 25 Kwa Mamsuthu to assess infrastructure damage and provide aid to all those affected. #EFFPrays4KZN #KZNFloods pic.twitter.com/2zL94wiBbP — Economic Freedom Fighters (@EFFSouthAfrica) April 21, 2022  Reacting to the party’s position on the invasion of land, Dlamini said people who built houses in low-lying areas were not responding to the EFF’s call. He says the party has always encouraged people to occupy land that is safe to live on. “No, we have never called for land grabs, we called for land occupation.  We said to our people where they see a beautiful piece of land and they like it they must occupy that land and we’re not changing that and in all the programmes that we have done and our people are not fools they have never had any occupation that is EFF led that went to build On the river banks, they went to nice pieces of land.” The EFF says it will be guided by the victims in terms of what aid to provide: 