A body of a six-year-old boy Thandolwethu Ngidi has been retrieved at Ngxongweni village near Port St Johns in the Eastern Cape. Ngidi drowned while crossing a flooded river on Tuesday afternoon during heavy rains. The other affected local municipalities are Mngquma and Mbhashe. The OR Tambo District Municipality’s Disaster and Risk Management team continues to check for more damages caused by torrential rains. The government authorities visited areas that are affected by the recent floods in Port St Johns. One of the visited families is that of Thandolwethu Ngidi. A member of the family Ntsikelelo Ntshiza says they will struggle with the burial. “This is very painful. He was looking after Gogo. Gogo did not want them to go to school on Tuesday when it was raining. They escaped when she was in the rondavel. What was painful was not finding the boy. We are happy the government arrived and we found the boy’s body. We have been searching since Tuesday. The challenge here at home will be the funeral.” Residents have been displaced by the floods:  MEC for Cogta Xolile Nqatha visited Thandolwethu Ngidi’s family. Nqatha has promised to assist the family “I’m glad that the body has been recovered by police and we wish to take this opportunity to convey words of condolences on behalf of the government to this family and other families who lost their loved ones in other municipalities like in Ntabankulu and other municipalities in the province as a result of these disaster.” Port St Johns Mayor Nomvuzo Mlombilo Cingo has promised to assist the family even after the funeral. “Looking at the way the home is, it tells us that as government we need to (do) whatever it is that needs to be done. That’s why we said to MEC for Cogta, Social Development and MEC for Human Settlement must come on board so that they can see what they can do. We want to pledge that as the municipality is going to be with them.” Cingo says gift of the givers has assisted people that are affected by the floods in town and will offer more assistance in other wards. Report by – Nomzwanele Mngoma