The murder weapon used in the murder of former Orlando Pirates and Bafana Bafana keeper Senzo Meyiwa was nicknamed “My killing machine.” The state has told the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria that when accused No. 3 was arrested at his rented room in Malvern, Johannesburg, his cellphone was confiscated and data was downloaded from it. It was among this data, according to the prosecution, that a picture of a gun believed to the murder weapon used on the night of 26 October 2014, with the caption, “My killing machine.” “The cellphone of the accused was confiscated on his arrest, and then the data on his cellphone was downloaded and various photos were found, inter alia a photo depicting the gun (linked to the murder) with the caption My killing machine,” says State Advocate, George Baloyi. According to the evidence expected to be led by the state from Monday, Meyiwa died as a result of a contact shot that went through his chest and exited at his back, hitting the back of the kitchen door which the former goalminder was standing against. “A forensic pathologist will prove the death of the deceased is consistent with contact bullet entrance wound, involving the heart and lung. (He will also testify that) the wound at the back is consistent with a bullet exit wound with a downward trajectory,” says Baloyi. “But more importantly, we will seek to prove through the ballistic expert that the spent bullet found near the kitchen door matched the firearm that was found in possession of accused No.: 3 in a room he occupied with his girlfriend in Malvern.” According to the indictment for the murder, two or three shots went off on that night – one fatally wounding Meyiwa, while another hit Kelly Khumalo’s sister, Zandile, on her ankle, which brought up about the attempted murder charge. After years of not much progress reported on Meyiwa’s murder case, the NPA, in 2020, announced a breakthrough in the investigation when Muzi Sibiya, Bongani Sandiso Ntanzi, Mthobisi Prince Mncube, Mthokoziseni Ziphozonnke Maphisa, and Sifisokuhle Ntuli were charged with Meyiwa’s murder, attempted murder of other witnesses, robbery with aggravating circumstances, unlawful possession of a firearms, and possession of ammunition. Earlier on Friday, all five pleaded not guilty to all the charges, before the court took an hours’ adjournment for counsel to consult with their client on the plea. The resumption of the proceedings kicked off with Advocate Malesela Teffo raising concerns with the presence of Kelly Khumalo’s lawyer, Magdalene Moonsamy in court, saying this meant Khumalo, who is a possible witness, was privy to proceedings in court. This was rejected by Judge Tshifhiwa Maumela. Adv Malemela Teffo raises issues with #KellyKhumalo‘s lawyer Adv Moonsamy’s presence in court since Khumalo is a potential witness to the matter. He says he’s not comfortable with her presence. The judge has rejected the points raised by Teffo. #SABCNews #SenzoMeyiwa pic.twitter.com/Hzxo8Pp1WX — Sipho King K Kekana (@KingKAzania) April 22, 2022  Moonsamy, speaking to SABC News during lunch, said there was no expectation that Khumalo, the former girlfriend of slain Bafana Bafana goalkeeper would be charged in regards to his murder. Khumalo, one of the seven people who were in house during the murder, is not one of the five accused and has not been charged. “There is absolutely no way that there is the minimum doubt. That narrative (that Khumalo may be charged) must be removed from society, because the reality is that there are five accused that are sitting in this dock. So, let us focus on the accused, and whether the plea that they have submitted is indeed one that is correct – that is what we need to focus on,” says Moonsamy. “Let us focus on the accused” #KellyKhumalo‘s lawyer, Magdalene Moonsamy responds to whether her presence in court means there is an expectation that Khumalo may be charged at some point during or after the #SenzoMeyiwatrial. #SenzoMeyiwa #SABCNews pic.twitter.com/JvJccxqLgc — Sipho King K Kekana (@KingKAzania) April 22, 2022  Moonsamy would not be drawn into saying whether they will instituting lawsuits against those who might have been involved in reputational damage by allegations of Khumalo being involved in the murder of Meyiwa, which has been a hot topic of public opinion since the incident eight years ago. “I’m waiting for her (#KellyKhumalo),” says Advocate for Accused 1 to 4, Malemela Teffo. Earlier, he tried to challenge the State’s order of witnesses and had also told court Khumalo’s lawyer, Magdalene Moonsamy should not be in court. #SABCNews #SenzoMeyiwatrial #SenzoMeyiwa pic.twitter.com/akRU2kPHPT — Sipho King K Kekana (@KingKAzania) April 22, 2022  The trial will resume on Monday with the state expected to call up their first witness.