National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) Spokesperson, Mthunzi Mhaga has labeled the bid to launch a private prosecution against state prosecutor, Advocate Billy Downer as intimidation and delaying tactics by lawyers representing former President Jacob Zuma. The Jacob Zuma Foundation has announced that its patron will pursue a private prosecution against the lead prosecutor in the arms deal case. BREAKING:
H.E President Zuma, has decided that Private Prosecution is the ONLY way to deal with the removal of the NPA’s Adv Downer and has instructed his legal team to set the wheels in motion.
Also, the reconsideration application has been filed with the President of the SCA pic.twitter.com/7pOmb9417F — JGZuma Foundation (Official) (@JGZ_Foundation) April 10, 2022  The former President has failed at numerous attempts to have Downer recuse himself in the matter. Zuma faces multiple charges of fraud and corruption alongside French arms dealer, Thales over the controversial multi-billion rand arms deal struck in the 1990s. Mhaga says the charges will not be sustained. “We regard as an intimidating and delaying tactic on the part of Mr Zuma’s lawyers because they know very well that those charges can never be sustained, hence the Director of Public Prosecutions in KwaZulu-Natal has declined to prosecute and the NDPP has refused to accede to their demand of the removal of Mr Downer,” says Mhaga. Zuma to be present at corruption trial in Pietermaritzburg The Jacob Zuma Foundation has confirmed that the former President will be present at the Pietermaritzburg High Court on Monday for the resumption of his corruption trial. “The foundation confirms that Zuma, contrary to speculations, will be at the PMB Court tomorrow, the 11th of April, he is going to be there. Zuma, through his legal team, will be responding to the supplementary affidavit served by the NPA where they seek to introduce new evidence on the events of the last few days,” says the Foundation’s Spokesperson, Mzwanele Manyi, It follows the recent dismissal by the Supreme Court of Appeal of Zuma’s leave to appeal his corruption prosecution, including his attempt to remove State Advocate, Billy Downer, from the trial. Zuma and French arms company, Thales, face charges including corruption, racketeering, fraud and money laundering linked to a multi-billion rand arms deal. Video: Jacob Zuma Foundation Spokesperson, Mzwanele Manyi on Former President Jacob Zuma’s intention to pursue private prosecution of Advocate Billy Downer  Manyi says Zuma has also instructed his legal team to institute private prosecution proceedings against Advocate Downer. “In his response, Zuma will remind the court that he has long anticipated that the NPA will refuse to prosecute one of their own, even after his recent retirement. He, therefore, informed the court in his previous affidavits that he instructed his legal team to institute private prosecution proceedings against Downer with immediate effect. The instruction will be put into operation in the next few days,” says Manyi. Video | Timeline: Jacob Zuma and the Arms Deal 