South Africa wants to increase its energy capacity by exploring new opportunities in countries like Guinea Bissau. President Cyril Ramaphosa hosted his Guinea Bissau counterpart, Umaro Sissoco Embaló, at the Union Buildings in Pretoria during a state visit. President Ramaphosa hosts Guinea-Bissau President Embaló on state visit  The two leaders are discussing ways to improve relations. Currently, South Africa has been battling rolling blackouts as Eskom struggles to keep the lights on. Official talks between South Africa & Guinea Bissau – today’s visit is expected to explore new areas of economic, trade and investment cooperation in Guinea Bissau’s key sectors such as agro-processing, defence, infrastructure & mining to the mutual benefit of both countries. pic.twitter.com/f7H7FSwXAe — Presidency | South Africa  (@PresidencyZA) April 28, 2022 `1Q Guinea-Bissau State Visit | President Ramaphosa and President Embaló brief the media:  President Ramaphosa says cooperation will benefit both countries. “It is our hope that we will be able to explore further opportunities your excellency, for investment by South African companies in Guinea Bisaau, in areas such agriculture, mining, energy, manufacturing s well as infrastructure. Such investment would benefit both our countries and enable Guniea Bissau to derive greater value from its natural resources and also providing South African companies with new opportunities benefit for growth.” Embalo says they want to bring investors to their country to strengthen their economy that was battered by COVID-19. He says South Africa is an important partner and he’s here to explore economic opportunists. Embalo says his country has potential for oil exploration amid the global energy challenges. “We want to strengthen our corporation in all areas of common interest. We want to attract investment in Guinea Bissau. We have important potential in agriculture, fisheries and exploration of oil.”  South Africa and Guinea Bissau share a vision and strategic partnership on the advancement of peace and security, prosperity and development of our Continent.​ The visit will also be a platform to reinvigorate a number of bilateral agreements that require closer implementation. pic.twitter.com/oMXb13m1TM — Presidency | South Africa  (@PresidencyZA) April 28, 2022  Guinea-Bissau State Visit | Defence Minister Thandi Modise on safety and security agreements: 