The Department of Transport in KwaZulu-Natal is temporarily relocating the motor licensing and driver testing services from Rossburgh to the Pinetown motor licensing station, west of Durban. Floods severely damaged the Rossburgh building prompting the move. Nine vehicles belonging to the department were also damaged. MEC for Transport Peggy Nkonyeni says only the issuing of driver’s licenses will be done at the Rossburgh testing station. Nkonyeni says, “Everything has been flooded here including our computers or documents. You just can’t believe what we see here. For the past thirteen days nothing has been happening here, we have not been providing any services from this service centre.” “But we are devising a strategy of moving some of the services to Pinetown and other DLTCs but we are appealing to our people not to come here. Of course, we will continue issuing driver license cards from this particular station, but we are not going to be providing other services that are not normally provided here.” added Nkonyeni. Provision of relief continues The KwaZulu-Natal provincial government says it is continuing with the provision of relief to flood victims, including assisting families to bury their loved ones and providing shelter to those who lost their homes. The government estimates that the cost to rebuild and repair infrastructure at a tune of R17-billion. The recent floods resulted to the death of over 430 people with about 53 still missing. Infrastructure such as roads, water, electricity and telecommunications was severely damaged. Spokesperson for the provincial government, Lennox Mabaso, “The preliminary estimation of the cost by the recent floods in KZN the picture which is very interim at this stage is estimated to R17 billion. The focus has been on the first line of support which is providing emergency relief. We have also taken liberty to revise the figures with regard to Prasa. The preliminary figures are indicating that in terms of restoration of services from Prasa that will be estimated at R955 million.” Emergency Services contact details:     