The family of slain Diepsloot resident, Khulekani Nzima says it’s devastated by his death. Nzima is among the alleged South African nationals whose murders sparked outrage in the community. He was allegedly stabbed to death by a gang on Sunday night. The 27-year old’s body was found on Monday morning. The family says it wants law enforcement agencies to rid the community of crime. They believe Nzima was mugged by unknown suspects on his way back home. Nzima’s brother Thabo says, “We appreciate community members protesting against the high levels of crime in Diepsloot, but we want all those involved in activities of crime to be arrested in spite of their nationality. He will be laid to rest on Saturday. VIDEO: Family members of slain resident devastated: Team of detectives Gauteng Premier, David Makhura, says a team of detectives has been established to bring the gang behind the spate of murders to book. Makhura says seven people have been murdered since October last year. A gang using the same modus operandi is believed to be behind the attacks. The murders led to a community protest where residents complained about the police’s inability to deal with high crime levels in the township. Makhura says, “We did door to door to understand how many were killed this past week and from October. The seven is the total number. They explained the modus operandi of the gang. They are alleging that they are not South African. That’s something the police are following upon.” Gauteng Premier David Makhura in Diepsloot amid unrest and alleged vigilante killing: Meanwhile, the EFF visited the widow of Zimbabwean national, Elvis Nyathi. Nyati was allegedly stoned to death, and his body set alight. It’s believed a mob, that was banging on doors asking people for their Identity Documents is responsible for the crime. EFF National Spokesperson, Sinawo Tambo says, “We are not saying the people of Diepsloot are illegitimate for saying there’s a problem of crime. We agree that there is a problem of crime everywhere. But you cannot say that the crime cannot be attributed to one group. Crime cannot be attributed to foreign nationals alone – that is not based on any statistical data.” The political party has lashed out at the police’s conduct when affecting arrests in Diepsloot. This after officers were caught on camera asking people to identify certain body parts in indigenous South African languages. “You should not murder someone because they don’t have a passport,” EFF Spokesperson Sinawo Thabo addressing the media outside murdered Elvis Nyathi’s home in #Diepsloot. #OperationDudula #SABCNews pic.twitter.com/TBnT2rpHhi — Sipho King K Kekana (@KingKAzania) April 8, 2022 