South Africa celebrates 28 years of democracy this year. Freedom Day honours the anniversary of South Africa’s first non-racial election and pays homage to the country’s liberation from apartheid rule during which the minority exercised prejudiced political power over the majority of the country. Since 1994, South Africa hosted some key events from sporting to international conferences. South Africa hosted the world’s third ever Rugby World Cup in 1995. South Africa was for the first time allowed to compete in the World Cup,  hosted at the Ellis Park Stadium, Johannesburg. The Springboks claimed victory against New Zealand in the 1995 World Cup final. This was a big moment in South Africa, one that former President Nelson Mandela tactically used to unite the nation. Black people had a historic dislike for the Springboks, a team they associated with apartheid. But Mandela chose to wear a Springbok jersey and a cap on that day to foster unity and reconciliation among South Africans of all race groups. It was a classic moment that will remain in the minds of many South Africans for many years to come. SA Rugby legends reflect on winning the 1995 RWC: In the 20th edition of the Africa Cup of Nations, the football championship of Africa was hosted in the country. South Africa replaced original hosts Kenya. In the finals, Bafana Bafana claimed a 2-0 victory against Tunisia. Hall of Fame honour for Bafana 1996 squad: The United Nations General Assembly proclaimed 2001 as the United Nations Year of Dialogue among Civilisations. 2001 was also the International Year of Mobilisation against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance, which sought to draw the world’s attention to the objectives of the World Conference and giving renewed impetus to the political commitment to eliminate all forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance. South Africa hosted the World Conference against Racism (WCAR) at the Durban International Convention Centre from 31 August – 8 September, 2001. The conference, also known as Durban I, was a landmark event as the international community gathered to deliberate on the challenges posed by the multiple manifestations of racism, xenophobia and related intolerances. SA recognised at International Day for Elimination of Racial Discrimination: The 2003 International Cricket Council (ICC) Cricket World Cup was co-hosted by South Africa, Zimbabwe and Kenya. This edition of the World Cup was the first to be played on African soil. In the final, Australia made 359 runs for the loss of two wickets -the largest ever total in a final -defeating India by 125 runs. The Proteas were eliminated in the group stages. South Africa was chosen to host the FIFA World Cup in 2010. On June 11, the FIFA World Cup kicked off in the packed Soccer City stadium in Johannesburg, with hosts South Africa taking on Mexico. Host nation South Africa got their continent’s first World Cup off to a thrilling start by scoring the tournament’s opening goal in a spirited 1-1 draw with Mexico. Approximately 85 000 spectators attended the match, while millions more watched on public viewing screens all over the country. During the same year, South Africa was formally invited to become the fifth member of BRIC, the acronym for the association of four major emerging national economies including Brazil, Russia, India and China. With the addition of SA, the bloc expanded its name to BRICS. In 2004, Tutu backed South Africa’s bid to host 2010 FIFA World Cup: South Africa hosted the 17th session of the Conference of Parties (COP17) of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and the seventh Meeting of the Parties (CMP7) to the Kyoto Protocol (UNFCCC COP17/CMP7 also known as COP 17). This auspicious event was held in the City of Durban from  November 28 to December 9, 2011, in Durban, South Africa. COP 17 aimed to establish a firm set of commitments among participating countries to reduce country-level carbon emissions and to agree to the mechanisms that were required to achieve carbon emission reductions as a global effort to contain the disastrous effects of anthropogenic climate change. COP17 official opening: In 2018, South Africa hosted the 10th BRICS Summit in Sandton, Johannesburg. The Summit was a milestone in the history of BRICS and was held under the theme “BRICS in Africa: Collaboration for Inclusive Growth and Shared Prosperity in the 4th Industrial Revolution”. 10th BRICS Summit – Official opening, 25 July 2018   –Additional Reporting: SA Gov News     