Stellenbosch FC will be the first test for Kaizer Chiefs caretaker coaches, Arthur Zwane and Dillon Shepherd this weekend, after the departure of Stuart Baxter at the club. The official statement came out on Thursday that Amakhosi and Baxter had parted ways just before completing his first season back in charge. Zwane and Shepherd are in the same boat as last season when they had to take care of the team after Gavin Hunt was fired with two matches remaining. Chiefs have had a new coach every season for the last four campaigns and five different coaches in the last seven years.  Now, a search for another coach has begun. Chiefs are currently fourth on the DSTV Premiership log with two games in hand, but 18 points adrift of Mamelodi Sundowns who are at the top of the log. While the challenge for league honours is no longer a reality, head of communications at the club is rather confident of a strong finish. Kaizer Chiefs Head of Communications Vina Maphosa says, “As you all know that Arthur Zwane and Dillion Shepherd have been there, done it before just in the past season, they were able to take the team to finish the league as well as lead us to the CAF Cup Final. Recently in December during the time when we had problems related to COVID-19, they were also able to carry the team to glory and some victories so we are looking forward to some changes that will give the club an opportunity to revive and get to prepare for the new season.” Technical team changes Sekhukhune United is another team that will have a slightly different looking technical team this weekend. Ba Bina Noko have reinforced their bench with the experienced Owen da Gama. The rookies who started their PSL campaign on a high, have since dropped to the bottom half of the log. With him appointed as co-coach alongside McDonald Makhubedu, Da Gama is hopeful they will turn fortunes of the club around, starting against Golden Arrows on Saturday. Da Gama says, “I’m here to add value and I will use my experience to help the coaches to maximise their potential as well I’m just going to use my experience to add value and that is important, everything seems perfect for this team to go far, yes we can add there and there but as I say I’m very excited to be part of this team.” Relegation-threatened teams The weekend fixtures will also see the battle of relegation-threatened teams. TS Galaxy and Maritzburg United will be hoping to move slightly away from the relegation zone when they clash in Mbombela. Swallows FC and Baroka FC will also be desperate for maximum points at the Dobsonville Stadium. Two points separate the two teams and anything less than a win will see them derail their hopes of avoiding automatic relegation.