Correctional Services doctors say they did not find any physical injuries on accused number 3 in the Senzo Meyiwa murder trial. Mthobisi Mncube has accused Correctional Services officials of assaulting him. He’s also asked to be transferred back to Johannesburg prison where he was incarcerated before the trial commenced in the High Court in Pretoria. Mncube and four others have been charged with the premeditated murder of the former Orlando Pirates and Bafana Bafana soccer star, who was shot and killed in Vosloorus in 2014. Giving the court feedback on the matter, prosecutor, advocate George Baloyi told the court an investigation on the matter is ongoing. “The doctors report indicated there are no physical injuries. The head of the Correctional Services contacted the station commander of the central police station to dispatch SAPS officials to afford Mr Mncube the opportunity to open a case as requested and indeed a case was opened, there’s also an investigating officer allocated to the matter. There’s also an internal investigation that is ongoing and has not been finalised yet. Khumalo’s lawyer asked to leave the court Earlier on Monday, the lawyer representing the former girlfriend of Meyiwa, Kelly Khumalo,  was asked to leave the court where the murder trial was under way. Khumalo is yet to be called to testify as a state witness. The defence earlier raised concerns about Khumalo’s lawyer, Magdalene Moonsamy, attending court proceedings. Judge Tshifhiwa Maumela said the court will decide on the matter after Khumalo has testified. Reporter Hasina Gori updates from the court:  Khumalo was among the people in the house in Vosloorus, east of Johannesburg, where Meyiwa was gunned down in 2014. Judge Maumela says, “The only concern we have now is if witnesses testify before the client of the watching come on and it’s on matters that the client of the watching brief might be expected to express upon, that system would have not been pure so I think I agree with you that the watching brief will now be excused.” State witness, sergeant Thabo Mosia is expected to continue giving evidence on Tuesday. Mosia, a forensic field worker collected evidence at the crime scene where Meyiwa was shot at the house of the mother of his singer girlfriend Khumalo. 