Some South Africans have referred to Freedom Day as “just another public holiday with nothing to celebrate.”
This comes as the country prepares to mark the occasion on Wednesday. Freedom Day ranks among the most important holiday in the South African calendar as it marks the day where all citizens over 18 years old cast their vote irrespective of the colour of their skin. For this year’s celebration, President Cyril Ramaphosa is expected to address South African residents in Mpumalanga. On the 27th of April, 28 years ago, a new path for South Africa was paved and the idea of a rainbow nation, cemented. The first democratic national elections to be held in the country where all could vote regardless of race. The fight for liberation and an equal South Africa culminated into a single day that would change the trajectory for the country. Despite this gain, some South Africans say this promise is in stark contrast to their realities. This has been worsened by the COVID-19 pandemic that compromised health and freedom for many and although the annual commemoration serves to remind citizens of the progress made, the spectre of inequality, poverty and unemployment remains, as expressed by these South Africans. One citizen says, “It’s like the struggle changed, just took a new form. we’re still struggling, we’re still facing the same challenges and it’s hard for us to make it as black people. Now when you walk into the campus, you can even feel the difference between me and another person. It’s like these people have all the privilege and you don’t. After school, when I’m done I’m going to be looking for a job, this person is just going to be situated in a position in a company. There are people that go to universities, they get degrees and when they come back they come back to the same Kasi.” Another citizen says, “Freedom Day doesn’t mean anything to me because we are still under many oppressions. As South Africans we face poverty, no housing, sanitation and also we don’t have free education, we’re facing gender based violence. Women are killed, children are killed. This is not freedom to us.” While another adds, “There’s still unequal distribution of wealth and income. The most people that are benefitting from democracy are the politicians.” ‘Government can no longer rely on symbolism’ As Freedom Day is commemorated in some parts of the country, government seeks to remind South Africans of the sacrifices that led to a free South Africa. However, analyst at the Wits School of Governance, Caryn Abrahams says government can no longer rely on symbolism. “We cannot only celebrate the past successes as though that will be the saving grace of this particular administration or government or this political climate. I think just because there is some history to be celebrated, doesn’t mean that current politicians are let off the hook, that our government can simply say look at how far we have come, look at these symbolic moments of freedom and triumph and victory and let it be top of mind. there’s a balancing act.” Despite this, Abrahams believes the gains made cannot be overlooked. “We do have something to celebrate. the current challenges don’t erase our success or past victories and the triumph of the human spirit, the way our leaders conduct themselves with integrity, with passion, committed to the values of non-racialism and justice.” Freedom Day I SPARK Soweto teaches their scholars about the importance of free and fair elections: