President Cyril Ramaphosa has announced that the COVID-19 pandemic will, going forward, be managed in terms of the National Health Act.  This follows the termination of the National State of Disaster 750 days after it was instituted in March 2020. Citizens have been given until 16 April to comment on the draft health regulations that have already been published by the Department of Health in a view to finalise new regulations to manage the pandemic. He says some of the restrictions of the state of disaster will however remain for the next 30 days, while legislation is being put in place to address issues relating to the pandemic. “We will still be required to wear a face mask in an indoor public space, this is necessary to prevent transmission in high-risk places especially since many people remain unvaccinated a mask is not required outdoors. Secondly, the existing restrictions on gatherings will continue as a transitional measure, this means that both indoor and outdoor venues can take 50 % of their capacity without any maximum limit provided that proof of vaccination or a COVID-19 test not older than 72 hours is required for entrance to the venue where there is no provision for vaccination or proof of a COVID test, then the current upper limit of 1000 people indoors and 2000 people outdoors will remain.” President Cyril Ramaphosa lifts the National State of Disaster: Vaccination Ramaphosa has also called for citizens to get vaccinated. He says the pandemic is unpredictable and has called for vigilance on the part of every South African. “By ending the National State of Disaster, we are each taking more individual responsibility for protecting our health and the health of others. Our greatest responsibility is to ensure that we are vaccinated against COVID-19 and to encourage others to get vaccinated,  vaccination is still our best defence against COVID-19. Vaccination is also the best weapon of reducing the chances of future waves of infection that overwhelm our health facilities and that may require that we once more declare a state of disaster.” Coronavirus cases in SA The National Institute for Communicable Diseases on Monday reported 685 new coronavirus cases, bringing the total number of laboratory-confirmed cases to 3 667 560. The increase represents a 5.4% positivity rate. The institute also reported two deaths,  bringing the total fatalities to 100 052. Below are the latest coronavirus stats in SA:   Loading… (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));    