There’s high traffic volumes on the N1 south between Polokwane and Pretoria. This as thousands of holidays makers are making their way back to various destinations. Limpopo traffic authorities say about 2000 vehicles have been recorded passing through the toll gates on the N1 since around midday. Traffic spokesperson, Mike Maringa says there is also high visibility of the law enforcers. Road users have been urged to be vigilant and play their role in promoting safety on Gauteng’s roads. Traffic volumes are increasing as Easter holiday-makers travel back from various destinations. Roads are still wet following heavy rains across the province and in other parts of the country. Gauteng traffic police have vowed to keep a close watch on major roads. They want to reduce the number of crashes and fatalities by more than 15 percent this Easter period. City of Tshwane’s MMC for Community Safety, Grandi Theunissen. “I think we must approach this not as law enforcement and public safety on the other hand. It must be a joint venture. The public must also take responsibility and play their role to ensure their own safety. It must be a public safety to also ensure the country’s roads are a safer place for everybody.” About 20 people have died in Mpumalanga due to road crashes since the beginning of the Easter holidays. Safety Security and Liaison Spokesperson, Moeti Mmusi says negligent driving appears to be a major cause of the fatal crashes. Mmusi says law enforcement officers have been deployed on various roads as the traffic volumes are expected to increase on Monday. “There has been a significant law enforcement visibility, which we believe has assisted us in terms of clamping down negligent driving while other motorists have complied with the rules. Although our numbers indicate so far that we are nearing 20 fatalities between the 14th and the 17th, we hope that once the minister releases the statistics we would have performed as we would have wanted to in terms of the fatalities and the fatal crashes,” says Mmusi. At least 18 people have died on the Western Cape’s roads this Easter weekend. On Friday, 11 people died and 13 others were injured when a taxi and bus collided on the N1 between Leeu Gamka and Beaufort West in the Karoo. In another crash on the same day, three people died and three were seriously injured in a head-on collision between a bakkie and an ambulance. Provincial Transport spokesperson, Jandre Bakker, says four other people died in separate incidents this weekend. Bakker says three of the deceased were pedestrians. “We plead with road users to be extra vigilant as we move through the last day of this long weekend. Please be patient, only overtake where it’s lawful and safe to do so. Never exceed the indicated speed limit, never drink and drive. Buckle up, including those driving in the rear of the vehicle. Ensure that your vehicle is roadworthy by checking your breaks, tires, lights, and indicators. And rest regularly on longer journeys.” Easter Weekend | Many have begun travelling to various destinations across all provinces: 