The African National Congress (ANC) has commended the Eastern Cape provincial task team for the progress it has made in holding branch general meetings and regional conferences as it prepares for its ninth provincial conference. The conference was scheduled for this weekend but has been postponed yet again, as the national dispute resolution committee is still dealing with several disputes. ANC National Spokesperson Pule Mabe says they are still waiting for a report from the national dispute resolution committee. Mabe says, “Once you are done with your BGM, and have achieved your own trash hold and if there are things that you still need to resolve. Remember, these are internal process of the ANC, the conference of the ANC, our people, our comrades who are members of the African National Congress in good standing.” “ And they are from time to time when you’re dealing with disputes, which in results in some delays of sort, for as long as at the political level the national structure and the relative structure have been accordingly briefed. That is where within our own organisational prescriptive processes, we have not broken any law nor has the PTT, IPC of the Eastern Cape broken law,” He adds. The Free State and North West The ANC in the Free State and North West are expected to hold their long-awaited provincial conferences this year. Mabe says both provinces have confirmed the work done in preparation for both regional and provincial conferences. The ANC in the two provinces has faced leadership challenges in the past. Mabe says both provinces, which are under the leadership of the ANC Interim Provincial Committees, will hold their conferences between May and June. “So, we are expecting that the provincial conference of Free State and that of the North West as per the conclusion of our last NEC would sit between May and June. So, if there are issues really that hamper them sitting within that period the leadership of the IPC will give us those reasons.” VIDEO:  ANC Mpumalanga held elective conference earlier this month: Additional reporting by Ishmael Modiba.