Clean up and recovery operations are under way across the eThekwini Municipality following this week’s floods and widespread incidents of overnight looting. Twelve people have been arrested after two retail outlets were broken into and looted at Umlazi south of Durban. This incident follows an earlier incident of looting in south of Durban on Monday, where some communities allegedly helped themselves to containers that had been washed away by floods. As provincial authorities count the cost of damages caused by the floods, widespread looting is being reported in and around Durban. Similar scenes served as catalysts for widespread looting and the torching and destruction of businesses and shopping centres in July last year. Now, retail stores in Umlazi have been targeted again. “The people were living in the dark for the past 3/4 days and I think that’s what got them frustrated and people didn’t have water and didn’t have lights. It was still dark yesterday around 10 when they started to do the looting at USave and while they were at the USave then we heard they started opening this side. So, I don’t know what started this looting, but I think people got frustrated and mobilised because they never had water and lights,” says community leader Peter Mhlongo. Police spokesperson Nqobile Gwala says 12 suspects have been arrested for charges of business burglary and possession of stolen property. “A group of community members entered two business premises at Umlazi H and J Section and they took groceries and appliances. Police swiftly responded at both premises and arrested a total of 12 suspects. The suspects were arrested for charges of burglary business and possession of stolen property. Some of the stolen groceries were recovered by police and handed back to the store manager. A vehicle that was used in the commission of crime was also seized by police.” Several other big businesses in and around the old Durban airport precinct near Amanzimtoti and Isipingo, were also looted. Taxi operations affected Meanwhile, the Umlazi Taxi Association says the floods have severely hampered their operations. “Umlazi two days, taxis not working (sic). From the time we had this water problem and now even yesterday, we tried to get a TLB to help us to remove everything. The water and the sand on the road and we did it but no one came to help us to move the containers on the road to go to Durban,” says Chairperson of the Association, Artwell Thabethe. The KwaZulu-Natal Department of Co-operative Governance is urging residents to donate towards relief efforts. Humanitarian organisation, the Gift of the Givers is working hand in hand with government to assist affected communities. “It has been a total disaster. We were involved in the floods in 2019, but this one seems far worse. There is heartbreak, shock with the sudden rise in water levels and overflowing rivers overnight. Pensioners were in the floods with water one metre high and they had to move. The informal settlements in KZN, many houses were washed away. People are heartbroken – a blanket, a pillow and pair of clothes are their life’s possessions, and all of that is gone, just washed away,” says Founder, Imtiaz Sooliman. Extent of the damage in eThekwini Municipality So far, the eThekwini Municipality estimates the financial impact of the floods to be at around R757 million . The Municipality is among the hardest hit areas in the province. Several services have been temporarily suspended. There are more rains forecast for this weekend. The eThekwini Municipality says it has established 17 shelters to house the over 2 000 displaced persons. After rains and winds cut rendered several areas inaccessible, about 60 % of these areas are now accessible by public transport. The municipality says its engineers continue to work to clear routes to allow critical water tankers to areas experiencing water shortages. Unfortunately despite the high number of deaths, the municipality says due to flooding, the city is unable to accept requests for burial until the situation normalises. Residents say they are struggle to get access to the basics including water:  