“Things are getting better but all I can say is people of Tongaat, whether we like it or not it will take us months, under 6 months to restore but we are now actively trying to install package plan that will assist for now. But as I say, where we have repaired and released water, the increased water pressure tends to burst the installed pipes.” Reconstruction of key infrastructure is expected to start after the mop-up operations are completed. It has been described as the worst flood disaster in the province’s history and far more severe than the floods of 1987 which left 60 people dead. The unprecedented heavy rainfall over a number of days led to flooding, mudslides, and structural damage. Record rainfall figures were recorded in many parts of the province. Experts warned that this was a sign of climate change. The province estimates that more than 100 000 people were affected, thousands of whom were left homeless and suffered damage to their properties. Damages Durban and surrounding areas were the worst affected. Early estimates indicate that the losses in the agricultural sector amount to at least R500 million. Repairs to road infrastructure to move produce from farms were identified as one of the most urgent interventions. The provincial government said its main priority was to save lives and provide humanitarian assistance. While recovery efforts continue, relief organisations, churches, and communities continue to assist those in need.
According to the government, work was being done to clear roads, bridges, and other public infrastructure. The container terminals in the port of Durban are operating at 60 to 100%. Citrus exporters have welcomed the contingency plans made to allow trucks to access the harbour. Power supply has been restored to some areas in the Ethekwini Metro, according to the latest reports. While water supply has been restored in some areas, municipalities are ensuring that emergency water supplies and water tankers reach areas where repairs are ongoing. Below is the playlist of videos on the KZN and Eastern Cape floods:  Photo Gallery of the floods in KZN: 