The African National Congress (ANC) Interim Provincial Committee (IPC) in the North West says it has managed to obtain enough money to pay its staff one month’s salary. About 400 employees from across the province’s four regional offices and the provincial head office have not been paid their salaries since December last year. This has led to workers downing tools and closing all the party’s offices. Coordinator for the ANC IPC, Hlomane Chauke, has admitted that the party is facing serious financial challenges. “It’s a serious call for concern because if we are unable to reach what we want in terms of what the ANC stands for on its aims and objectives that be driven by resources and if we don’t have, it places a challenge to us. But whatever we have mobilised now we have engaged with them.” Spokesperson for the striking workers, Confidence Mosime, says they will continue with their action to close all offices as their demands are not yet met. “Mr Chauke failed us together with the delegation and the IPC has failed us in a way that they could not meet our demands. Our demands are that going forward, we need our three salaries to be paid into our accounts. Failing which the offices will be closed. One month’s salary won’t do anything; won’t make any change to our lives.” Non-payment of salaries countrywide Meanwhile, ANC staff members countrywide have also been experiencing issues with the non-payment of salaries. In January, workers complained about how three months had passed without them receiving their salaries, despite staging protests outside Luthuli House. They claimed that the last time they were paid was in August last year, and their provident fund hasn’t been paid since 2018. Later in February, ANC staff representatives dismissed claims that all employees had been paid their outstanding salaries. This came after Treasurer General Paul Mashatile said the party has finally paid all outstanding staff salaries up to the end of January 2022. Staff members expressed their ‘disgust” at what they termed the lack of commitment by the leadership of the party to resolving problems related to their salaries and employment benefits. In June last year, staff members embarked on a nationwide strike against the non-payment of their salaries. More details in the report below: -Additional reporting by SABC News