Police say the dramatic arrest of Adv Malesela Teffo in the High Court in Pretoria was due to him not cooperating with the investigating officer. Teffo was arrested on Thursday on the sideline of the Senzo Meyiwa murder trial. He’s representing four of the accused in the matter. The arrest happened after the court had just adjourned the matter. Teffo appeared in the Hillbrow Magistrate Court in Johannesburg on Friday, where he was released on R10 000 bail. An investigation into his arrest was conducted by Gauteng Police Commissioner, Lieutenant General Elias Mawela, who issued a statement Saturday afternoon. SAPS claims that they were forced to call on the assistance of the Tactical Response Team as Teffo was not compliant. In the statement, it alleges the Investigating Officer consulted with the Director of Public Prosecutions ahead of the arrest being executed. Teffo was previously arrested on charges of common assault and trespassing after allegedly assaulting a female SAPS member and entering the SAPS Gauteng Provincial building. This was in contravention of a high court interdict, prohibiting him from entering the offices. The defence advocate had failed to appear in the Hillbrow Magistrate’s Court in this matter. On Friday he appeared once again on contempt of court charges for his abscondment and was released on R10 000 bail. Colonel Athlenda Mathe explains, “While the intention was to execute the warrant outside the courtroom, the manner in which the events unfolded made it challenging for the team. Police have a responsibility to arrest a suspect in order to secure his/her attendance in court. Therefore, the execution of the warrant of arrest in this instance was the initiative of the investigating officer in consultation with his commander, which forms part of the members’ daily duties.” I am more determined than ever: Advocate Malesela Teffo granted R10 000 bail:  Warrant of arrest Police say there was an intention to execute the warrant of arrest outside the courtroom. As soon as the court adjourned the investigating officer approached Teffo who police say was making his way towards the court door. After informing Teffo of the execution of the warrant and of his rights, the advocate went back into the courtroom and the officer followed him. National Police spokesperson Athlenda Mathe says, “Advocate Teffo did not cooperate with the investigating officer, which warranted the call for the assistance of the Tactical Response Team members who were already posted in the same court for escort duties.” She says Teffo was aware that a warrant of arrest had been issued against him as he had contacted the investigating officer and that the residential addresses he had provided previously to secure bail were visited but were not found.