Former IFP leader and Member of Parliament Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi is calling on leaders and government officials to use their conscience to avoid the plundering of the disaster relief funds meant for flood victims. Buthelezi was speaking virtually, in response to a debate on President Cyril Ramaphosa’s address to a Joint Sitting of Parliament on the devastating floods that ravaged KwaZulu-Natal (KZN) and parts of the Eastern Cape. President Ramaphosa addresses Joint Sitting of Parliament :  Buthelezi says many people have reasons why they are worried about the possible plundering of disaster relief funds. “We have seen neighbours assisting one another in recognition of our shared humanity. It was painful and entirely understandable that South Africans are already pleading to protect the resources for disaster relief. There is a very real fear that these funds will be plundered long before they reach destitute families. I therefore call on government officials and leaders to assess their consciences. There is no peace for those who steal from out people. Disaster can strike anytime. Make sure that your hands are clean. Now as we face this devastating loss, may God almighty heal our nation. Thank you you excellency.” Meanwhile, EFF Member of Parliament Hlengiwe Mkhalipi says government and the people of KZN should take the lead in rebuilding the province. “The monies that will be made available to deal with the disaster must be fully accounted for and they must be fully accounted and they must be utilised to authorised state institutions. We cannot hand over the functions of government to unelected people. The state together with the citizens of KZN must lead the rebuilding of that province and anyone who is found to be stealing from the citizen’s must be arrested.” Steenhuisen had harsh words for government DA leader John Steenhuisen says while President Cyril Ramaphosa has given the assurance that national government will co-ordinate and manage the disaster caused by the floods in KwaZulu-Natal, the reality faced by people on the ground is a different scenario. “In the real world no one is actually managing this process. Everyone has simply run away from this problem and desperate residents have been left once again to fend for themselves. The mayor has gone AWOL, your councillors are panic telling residents to F…off on WhatsApp, the Premier grabs a tanker for themselves, council staff are stealing the care packages meant for the rescuers and when the Ministers finally arrive they come in helicopters for vanity flybies that should have been used to rescue individuals.”