Political parties in the Free State have called for the prosecution of those incriminated in the SIU report. Several companies and government officials have been implicated in the procurement of COVID-19 goods and services. The SIU has referred some matters to the NPA for prosecution. Other possible sanctions include the blacklisting of 27 companies. The SIU has referred matters involving former Treasury Chief Financial Officer, Monaheng Mokoena and Head of the Department of Human Settlements, Nthimotse Mokhesi to the NPA. SIU briefs SCOPA on PPE corruption:  It has found that the CFO committed fraud by making a misrepresentation of the quotations submitted for C-Squared company regarding the pricing of the medical protective overalls and masks. Both Mokoena and the CEO of C-Squared Ben Moseme have been referred to the NPA. Meanwhile, Mokhesi was found to have failed to comply with the Public Finance Management Act. The office of the Free State Premier is considering disciplinary action against him. The ANC’s Interim Provincial Committee spokesperson, Oupa Khoabane says the report is a step in the right direction. “We are happy when the police force is able to deal with wrongdoing in procurement in government especially. So we are happy that as the ANC something is done to ensure that we curb wrongdoing, especially in procurement in government. And this has been the decision of the ANC in the conference and we are happy that it’s been implemented and we can see more action being taken against such wrongdoing.” The EFF Free State chairperson, Mandisa Makesini says all those implicated by the Special Investigating Unit, must be barred from doing business with the state. Makesini says the rot is endemic amongst the government employees. “Our concern is the issue of the employees of the government who are 224, who are implicated in this. And 330 companies that are being blacklisted and those people that must be charged by the NPA. They must be charged and they must go to jail. Justice must prevail for the people of the Free State. The corruption that is happening in this province is too much. And all those people if they think they will come with another name to register their company, their IDs and any information regarding them must be highlighted so that they must not do any business with any government, anytime soon, in this country, in this province of the Free State.” The Freedom Front Plus in the Free State has also called for those implicated in the irregular awarding of tenders relating to goods and services in connection with the COVID-19 to be prosecuted. FF Plus Member of Parliament, Wouter Wessels says heads of departments must be taken to task for not following the prescripts of the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). “Well the FF Plus is of the opinion that this report only shows the tip of the iceberg. That it’s also very clear that the Free State is endemic with corruption, inflated prices and with financial mismanagement. Whilst the people of the Free State were suffering and are still suffering because of dire economic circumstances in the province and financial shortages. These types of irregular contracts were awarded, then we say they must be consequences, especially the political heads that on their watch this happens and they allowed this to happen.” DA leader in the Free State, Roy Jankielsohn says those implicated in the wrongdoing must face the full might of the law. “Another important aspect is that 27 companies are being referred to the South African Police Services for investigation in terms of alleged fraud. One of them is C-Squared which has a monopoly over many activities within the Free State. And the last aspect of it is that within the Department of Human Settlements, there are also allegations of fraud and the former HOD Mr Mokhesi has been referred by the SIU also for further prosecution. Meanwhile, both sons of the suspended ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule have been exonerated. Allegations were made that they got contracts due to their father’s relations with the MEC for Treasury. Treasury was not immediately available for comment.