The Western Cape Department of Education continues to place all learners in its schools. Nearly 3 000 pupils are yet to be placed. The department says this has been made severe by budget cuts from National Treasury, the introduction of the norms and standards regulations and the rotational schooling system. More than a million learners returned to classes in the province for the start of the academic year. The Western Cape is amongst the top-performing provinces in the country. The Provincial Minister for Education Debbie Schafer says even though the department needs to build an additional 19 schools, the issue of placement of learners remains complex. “We started very early last year with admission processes which is an ongoing problem but we have made a lot of progress, even though we still have unplaced learners, they are far fewer than the previous year. We are working every day to reduce that number to make sure they are in school as soon as possible. We have ordered our stationery, everyone who has ordered the stationery; they have received their stationery. We are making additional spaces available in schools because every year we have an increase in numbers.” Schafer says there has been an additional number of learners who have come to the province: The Western Cape Department of Education says the continued rotational schooling system, introduced during lockdown levels, is negatively impacting children’s education. Perivale Primary School Principal, Zahir Jacobs says they are grateful for getting a replacement school which will start operating from March. “So excited to start a new year on a positive note, so that when the transition takes place we will be able to house the capacity of all learners at our school so that we will be able to enhance teaching and learning in our community and also building our nation going forward as well.” The province, which has obtained more than 80% pass rate for matrics for 10 consecutive years, says it is hopeful for better results as they get announced on Thursday, despite the disruption caused by COVID-19. “I am looking really forward to the announcement of the matric results tomorrow by the national minister and then on Friday at our schools the learners will be able to receive the results. I want to say to all our matrics, I wish you all the best. I know this is an anxious time while you wait for your marks but I know you will do well. I hope you will be happy with your results,” says Schafer. The department says it has put safety measures at schools to ensure learner and teacher safety.