Many students at the Central University of Technology in Bloemfontein are still waiting to hear if they have been accepted. The university has received close to 200 000 applications for first-year students, but the institution will only admit about 4 000 for the 2022 academic year. Walk-ins are also not allowed and registration is done online. However, there are long queues of students outside the main campus in Bloemfontein. Some first-year students say they are anxious to know their fate. Many students queued outside universities, hoping to be accepted. Some have been successful, but space is limited. “My status says no decision taken now and for radiography, they say they changed my application to clinical,” says one of the students. Another student says: ” I have been here for four days but we’ve been doing the same thing, no progress. Nothing has happened so far.” Central University of Technology spokesperson, Seithati Semenokane, has appealed to students to apply on time. “Some are unfortunately walk-ins which we cannot take in. The university received more than 192 000 applications and we can actually just accept below 4 000 first years. This is the situation in the country, however, we do want to just encourage people to apply the year before so that we do not have this situation again.” At the University of the Free State, registration is also taking place online, but it has not been without challenges. First-year students are expected to register next week. SRC President, Luvuyo Jacobs, says they are addressing challenges that students are facing. “The major problem that we have been receiving is the issue of the call centre that the university has made available for students to call if they have registration queries, but it is situations that on daily basis we are communicating with the university management and they are still promising to get more manpower to assist during this process. On top of that, there are major issues that we normally face during registration like student finance.” Meanwhile, registration started two weeks ago at the Motheo TVET college, and returning senior students are being registered.  