Heavy rains continue to wreak havoc in some communities around Mbombela in Mpumalanga. Road infrastructure and houses have been damaged. Mattafin near Mbombela is the latest area to have been affected, following heavy rains on Thursday night. The City of Mbombela is one of the municipalities to be hardest hit by the heavy rains. In Mattafin, roads have been washed away and several houses damaged. Some residents cannot even access their homes due to the badly damaged roads. They say that even driving in the area is a nightmare. Sibongile Nyambi is one of those affected by heavy rains. She says she and her children could not sleep as the house is flooded and her furniture is damaged. “The rain caused a lot of damage here, even inside the house, the couch, bed, and everything has been damaged. The kids couldn’t sleep. I could not go to work, we don’t know what to do, we need assistance.” Mbombela residents counting their losses after heavy rains: Motorists are also affected as their vehicles get stuck on muddy roads. William Mahlalela says they do not feel safe driving in the area. “We have no choice but in order for our families to get food we have to use this road, we have no other means, we are forced to pass by.” The South African Weather Service has predicted that this part of the country could experience rains until the end of the summer season. “We are currently under the influence of LaNina phase which is a weather phenomenon associated with more or above-average rainfall often leading to flooding especially to low lying areas and bridges and susceptible roads in informal as well as urban areas with poor drainage systems. These rains result from severe thunderstorms which may be accompanied by hail, and strong winds lightning as well as heavy downpours. Communities in the eastern part of the country including Mpumalanga may expect these rains to continue on and off,” says South African Weather Service’s Bongani Chibi. Meanwhile, the City of Mbombela is currently assessing the damage and providing short-term relief to residents in the affected areas.