A heated argument has ensued between Zizi Kodwa, member of the National Executive Committee of the African National Congress (ANC) and members of the ANC Youth League, ahead of the Peter Mokaba Memorial Lecture to be delivered by President Cyril Ramaphosa on Friday afternoon. The ANC Youth League members are furious over a decision to allow only 500 people to attend the lecture at the Jack Botes Hall with a 2000 sitting capacity. They say they traveled from far coming to Polokwane, wanting to hear Ramaphosa address them. But the National Youth Task Team, NYTT, has decided to be cautious about the number of people who will be allowed in, following an incident that saw Ramaphosa not addressing an ANC Women’s League event in Lebowakgomo on Thursday, saying Covid-19 protocols were not followed. Nothing sinister Ramaphosa told the SABC News in Mokgopong that there was nothing sinister about his departure. He says there was a mutual agreement between him and the league that the event could not continue without observing COVID-19 protocols. “Everybody agreed including the woman’s league that we hadn’t complied with the COVID-19 regulations. So, everything was well handled and I’m glad everybody, including the leadership agreed that we should not proceed,” says Ramaphosa. ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa breaks silence on departure from an ANC Women’s League event:  Traditional leaders On Wednesday, Ramaphosa visited the BaPedi Kingdom, with his Deputy, David Mabuza, meeting with the traditional leaders in Polokwane. ANC National Chairperson Gwede Mantashe visited the Vhavenda Royal Palace and ANC Treasurer-General Paul Mashatile visited the Norman Mashabane Region. The main reason for these visits is to let the people of Limpopo know that, the governing party will be celebrating its birthday in Polokwane. What has become known as the January 8th statement will be delivered by the ANC President at Peter Mokaba Stadium on Saturday. But the ANC has emphasized that on Saturday, during the delivery of what is known as the January 8th statement, COVID-19 protocols will be observed. The video below is reporting on the readiness of the ANC ahead of its Saturday celebration: 