A head-on collision involving two minibus-taxis has claimed a total of nine lives on Sunday night in the Eastern Cape. The accident occurred on the N2 between Makhanda and Nanaga. Eastern Cape Department of Transport spokesperson Unathi Binqose says a fully loaded taxi travelling towards the Gqeberha direction collided with another taxi travelling in the opposite direction with only two occupants, a male and a female. Binqose says the injured have been rushed to a hospital in Makhanda and a culpable homicide docket has been opened. “Eastern Cape Transport MEC Weziwe Tikana-Gxotiwe is extending her sincere words of condolences to those families that have lost their loved ones in this accident. And disturbingly it is yet another head-on collision. The second in as many days that involved fully loaded taxis.” “Head-on collisions always tell us that one of the drivers was on the wrong side of the road. He was doing something he should not have done when the accident happened and unfortunately that one mistake has claimed nine lives and fifteen in total if you add the total of the accident that happened in Graaf Reinet, two days ago. We are pleading with motorists to be patient, rather get to your destination late than not get there at all,” adds Binqose. In the video below, law enforcement authorities are urging motorists to drive safe on the country’s roads:  Meanwhile, three people including a six-month-old baby have died on Monday morning in a head-on collision on the N4 outside Rustenburg in the North West. The provincial Department of Community Safety and Transport Management says three vehicles, including a truck carrying unrefined platinum, were involved in the accident. The mother of the six-month-old baby survived with serious injuries and is receiving medical attention at the hospital while the truck driver escaped unharmed. The fatal crash comes just a day after four people died on the same road. The road is temporarily closed and motorists are advised to use alternative routes.