ActionSA president, Herman Mashaba will hold a press conference on Monday to communicate developments about the coalition in the City of Ekurhuleni. The party spokesperson, Lerato Ngobeni, says national chairperson Michael Beoumont will be among those attending the event. Earlier in January, the City of Ekurhuleni Municipality held its first ever multiparty caucus meeting in Germiston. This meeting forms part of the Local Government Coalition Agreement entered into by ActionSA, the Democratic Alliance (DA), Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP), African Christian Democratic Party (ACDP), the Freedom Front Plus (FF-Plus) and Congress of the People (COPE). Addressing the meeting, Caucus Leader of ActionSA and Member of the Mayoral Committee for Community Safety, Tlhogi Moseki welcomed members of the Joint Caucus and expressed excitement for the historic event. “I am truly humbled and privileged to be a part of this auspicious occasion, where parties entrusted by the electorate, the residents of the City based on the outcome of the 2021 Local Government Elections called for us to work under a coalition government. The meeting illustrates that we are committed to work together with all parties of common interest to advance the interest of the residents of the City” said Moseki. Clean audit On Friday, the municipality announced that it received a clean audit for the 2020-2021 financial year from the Auditor-General. The city said to reach the necessary 90% collection level it will need to have “more robust credit control measures”. It added that because of the COVID-19 hardships the previous financial year, the cash collection rate for the city was 80%. In the video below, City Manager at Ekurhuleni, Imogen Mashazi said it was quite difficult to attain a clean audit: New multi-party Mayoral Committee This month, the City of Ekurhuleni also announced its new multi-party Mayoral Committee. Under the leadership of the newly elected Mayor Tania Campbell, the committee consists of members from the DA, IFP, ActionSA and COPE. In a statement, Campbell said the multi-party committee’s combined institutional knowledge and skill set will map the way forward to work in the best interests of the communities in Ekurhuleni. Six of the 10 MMCs are from the DA. These include Graham Gersbach for Economic Development and ICT, Senzi Sibeko for Water and Sanitation, Ruhan Robinson for Corporate and Shared Services, Mabekenyane Thamahane for Human Settlements, Heather Hart for City Planning and Andre du Plessis, MMC for Environment and Waste Management. The IFP’s Alco Ngobese has been named the MMC for Transport, while COPE’s Themba Kalipa is the new MMC for Infrastructure Services. The MMC for Community Safety, Tlhogi Moseki is from ActionSA. VIDEO: In November, DA’s Tania Campbell elected as mayor in Ekurhuleni: