President Cyril Ramaphosa is expected to receive official correspondence from the Standing Committee on Public Accounts (SCOPA) no later than Thursday, requesting him to provide a written response to the allegations that African National Congress (ANC) MP Mervyn Dirks has made against him. They relate to a leaked audio recording of an ANC NEC meeting in which Ramaphosa allegedly admitted that he was aware of state funds that were used for party political activities. The entity at the centre of the allegations is the State Security Agency (SSA). On Tuesday, SCOPA Chairperson Mkhuleko Hlengwa emphasised that Ramaphosa’s response would lay the foundation for the committee’s investigations into the allegations. “Let us write to the President to solicit and establish facts or an explanation on this issues. We reserve the right as a committee to invite him and at the same time inform the other affected parties of that explanation. A written response, statement or affidavit from the President in this regard to reach us latest [on] Thursday.” “So give the President seven to ten days to respond to that. His response will lay the foundation on the nature and shape of our investigation into this matter,” says Hlengwa. SCOPA meets over call for Ramaphosa to be held accountable:  Meanwhile, the Western Cape High Court has struck ANC Member of Parliament (MP) Mervyn Dirks’ application regarding his suspension, off the roll with costs. Dirks brought an application to interdict ANC Chief Whip Pemmy Majodina from suspending him as a member of the Standing Committee on Public Accounts (Scopa). Judge Andre Le Grange found that Dirks had failed to prove that the matter was urgent. He said that Dirks was free to participate in the meeting as an MP because he has not been suspended as an MP. Dirks was suspended as a whip of Scopa last week for his refusal to withdraw a letter he wrote to Scopa, at the end of last year, asking it to investigate President Ramaphosa. Dirks’ application struck off the roll with costs: 