The oldest liberation movement in Africa, the African National Congress (ANC) celebrated a milestone 110 years over the weekend. The party took its celebrations to Polokwane. The celebrations came just months after South Africans cast their votes in the Local Government Elections, and the party suffered at the polls. Amongst the issues touched upon was the July unrest and the recent attacks at National Key Points such a Parliament and the Constitutional Court last week. President Cyril Ramaphosa announced the January the 8th Statement that traditionally outlines the party’s vision for the year talking about unity and renewal. Analysts have looked at the speech and also the stakes for Ramaphosa entering a new year. His supporters are working to secure him a second term as head of the ANC but his opponents are reportedly mobilizing to bring him down at the elective conference in December this year.  With the marching orders out, the focus moves to February when the ANC president and will deliver the State of the Nation Address. With the country still recovering from last year’s July unrest, another setback, National Key Points under attack. Last week, parliament was engulfed in flames, while the Apex Court in the land also suffered a blow, on the day the first volume of the State Capture report came out. Leadership race The events leading up to the celebrations confirmed that the leadership race has kicked off. Ramaphosa received an endorsement from the province. The ANC will hold its 55th elective conference in December. Politically, 2022 is going to be an interesting year as all structures of the ANC are due for election. During his address, the ANC president was clear on the corruption issue. This as he awaits the last two chapters of the State Capture report. “ANC structures must accelerate and intensify the renewal and rebuilding of the ANC and act decisively to ensure that those who are guilty of corruption and factionalism.” With January 8 out of the way, all eyes will be on the State of the Nation Address, while the two remaining parts of the State Capture report are pending. January 8 statement I ANC 110th birthday celebrations:    