The 10 suspects arrested in connection with the armed robbery at Malamulele police station are allegedly positively linked with more than 100 offences in Limpopo. Speaking following the arrest of the suspects who allegedly attacked the police station, and stole cash and firearms in November, Provincial Police Commissioner, Lieutenant General Thembi Hadebe says they are suspected of various crimes, including ATM bombings, armed robbery, car hijacking, murder and illegal possession of firearms. Police say 11 firearms, ammunition, explosives, were among items recovered when the 10 suspects were arrested in various places in Limpopo and Mpumalanga. Two vehicles used to commit crimes were also confiscated. Provincial police commissioner, Thembi Hadebe says the search for other suspects is ongoing. “For Mopani district is 27 cases for Vhembe is 17 cases for Capricorn is 26 cases and their powerhouse was in Sekhukhune with 33 cases. The cases are ranging from different types of cases that were committed, we arrested ten of them and we are still looking at others as associates so there still more outside that we still need to collect,” says Thembi Hadebe. Hadebe says the suspects aged between 30 and 48 will appear in various courts in Limpopo and Mpumalanga. “The suspects are age between 30 and 48 and they will be appearing in the magistrate’s court across the province including the province of Mpumalanga facing charges of unlawful possession of firearms and ammunition explosives conspiracy to commit crime attempted murder, murder, car hijacking and attack on the police station of Malamulele.” The involvement of a police officer who was previously dismissed from Malamulele police station in the attack at the station in November cannot be ruled out. Hadebe says the officer was fired for criminal activities. “In terms of the involvement of the police officer that was fired, I cannot divulge that information. We will never rule out the involvement of any person. Everybody can become a suspect at any point in time yes there was a policeman who has been fired based on the fact that he was involved in such criminal activities. We never for once rule out that he might also be involved in this particular case,” Hadebe explains. Some residents in Malamulele have commended the police for arresting the suspects in the attack and theft at the local police station. “We feel so excited because we used to be scared whenever we walk to streets because we might get robbed …I feel good because those people have troubled us… Now I’m happy if they catch them,” says a concerned resident. VIDEO: Ten suspects arrested in connection with armed robbery at the Malamulele police station  