The University of Venda (Univen) in Thohoyandou, Limpopo, has not yet implemented its mandatory vaccination policy. In December last year, management decided to adopt a policy that it will only allow people who are fully vaccinated to enter its premises. Some students who want to access the campus are being screened outside the university entrance. The university is currently conducting online registration for more than 3 000 students. Spokesperson Takalani Dzaga says unvaccinated students can still access the campus. “In December 2021, the University Council took a decision about mandatory vaccination, but despite the fact that it has been taken prior to the effective implementation of the decision, the university is allowing staff and students, both who are vaccinated and unvaccinated to access the campus provided they go through normal screening processes.” In the tweet below, Univen’s mandatory COVID-19 vaccination policy: UNIVEN COUNCIL ADOPTS MANDATORY COVID-19 VACCINATION POLICY https://t.co/8OkAlXQz88 — University of Venda (@Univenofficial) December 3, 2021  In the report below, Univen has yet to implement the mandatory vaccination policy:  Opposition Various groups have come out in strong opposition to mandatory vaccination policies which have been announced across different universities in the country. On Monday, Solidarity Union lodged a High Court application against the University of the Free State’s (UFS) mandatory COVID 19 vaccine policy, stating that the says the policy is unlawful. Solidarity’s Anton van der Bijl says they are not against vaccines as they see vaccination as a reasonable intermediate intervention. The Democratic Alliance Student Organisation (DASO) at the University of the Free State says while it fully supports vaccination, everyone has the right of choice regarding the vaccine which the university should not infringe upon. Solidarity’s Research Institute Head Connie Mulder speaks more on the union’s application against the university:  Political parties Various political parties have also raised their concerns about mandatory vaccination policies. The Democratic Alliance says while it strongly supports vaccination against the pandemic, current evidence shows that vaccines are less effective at preventing transmission. It says the number of infections is still occurring amongst highly vaccinated populations. The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) says no one in South Africa should be forced to take the vaccine against their will. Party leader Julius Malema has since said people should not be bullied into taking vaccines, however, South Africans should still be encouraged to take the jab. Addressing students in Belville in October last year, Malema slammed mandatory vaccinations:  -Additional reporting by Ishmael Modiba & Abongile Dumako 