Several roads in the Durban CBD remain closed to traffic following a fire at the China Emporium on Friday. Smoke is still visible from the smoldering building. Metro Police spokesperson Senior Superintendent Parboo Sewpersad is advising motorists to use alternate routes. “The M4 southern freeway incoming is closed at Margaret Mncadi and Moore road. This is due to the fire at the China mall. Traffic is diverted upon Margaret Mncadi and Moore road. Pixley Ka Seme and Brooke streets also remain closed.” “There are major road closures in place. Motorists are urged to stay away from the following road closures Anton Lembede and Brooke, Pixley Ka Seme and Brooke, Pixley Ka Seme and Williams Road. Motorists are urged to comply with police officers’ instructions, we are dealing with an emergency situation,” says Sewpersadh. Firefighters battled for several hours to control the blaze. The cause of the blaze is still being investigated. Eyewitnesses say the fire quickly spread throughout the building. One person says, “It was morning around half-past eight. The time I was going out to take money from other customers because they buy stock from inside. So I went to take the money – the time I was going outside I just see small smoke, smoke from the shop downstairs. The shop Gt 1 was smoking that time but by then I thought it was just smoke maybe someone was smoking. By the time we were going out, I took almost ten minutes. The time I came back the building started burning then the other people were just jumping from the 3rd floor, coming down almost. Some people got injured, others were taken to hospital.” Another eyewitness says, “People battled to move cars and other things out of the building but they could not save everything. Things got burned and there are some of my brothers who work at the top of the building and I am downstairs but they are based up there. I think those upstairs were caught in the fire I don’t think they made it. Others tried to jump from the windows and they got injured.” “I didn’t know when the fire started… too much smoke I didn’t really know which way it’s coming from. Most of the people ran away I am not a hundred percent that all the people are coming out but you see I can’t do anything now but there is still smoke inside but I didn’t know anything inside,” added another person. In the video below from January 21, 2022, Metro Police spokesperson Senior Superintendent Parboo Sewpersad gives an update on the fire: 