The Grade 12 class of 2021 will know within a few hours how well it went on the exam. The Eastern Cape recorded a pass rate of 68.1% in 2020. But there is a belief that this level will be bested. A nervous tension looms all around. Principal of Sanctor high school Keith Buck says, “We are looking at a possible 80% pass rate. I will be very happy because all the effort they placed in 2021 was really commendable given the circumstance of COVID Etc… All the programmes we had in place helped a lot. The winter school autumn school programmes.” It was a challenging year for the class of 2021 but the educators are confident of good results. Director of Newton College, Lleigh Armstrong also expects good results. “My expectations from our students are high. There is one little glitch in all of this and that is these students carry with them a Sub mark and that Sub mark is often a mill around their neck and brings their marks down so they can achieve well but it’s always that sitting at the back of their head.”  Education specialists note that the lockdown regulations prioritised lives over education. The expectation is that it will have an effect on the results. “And every time with that vision the education system was chopped and changed. The learners came back every time, they tried very hard and in spite of that they are still not going to achieve like they could’ve achieved if it was a normal system,” explains Education specialist, Dr Susan Van Rensburg. Learners will be able to collect their comprehensive results from their schools in the morning. North West Matric learners from the class of 2021 in Vryburg in North West say they are ready for the release of matric results on Friday. The North West province obtained a 76.2% pass rate for last year which placed the province in the 5th position countrywide.  Hopeful for higher pass rate Meanwhile, learners and teachers at Poo Secondary School at Seokodibeng village, outside Burgersfort in Limpopo, are hopeful of a higher pass rate this year. Poo Secondary School is one of the many public high schools in the country that are anxiously awaiting their 2021 matric results. The school is aiming to achieve just above 95%.  234 learners wrote matric last year. Education MEC Polly Boshielo will deliver provincial results on Friday morning. VIDEO: Matric 2021 – Two IEB schools achieve 100% pass rate in Eastern Cape  