Anti-apartheid activist Lord Peter Hain says he’s encouraged by the first part of the State Capture Commission report saying that it puts the spotlight on British consultancy firm, Bain, for their deliberate dismantling of the South African Revenue Services (SARS) during the tenure of Commissioner Tom Moyane and the Presidency of Jacob Zuma. In the report, that was presented to President Cyril Ramaphosa on Tuesday, Acting Chief Justice Raymond Zondo recommended that Moyane be charged with perjury in relation to allegedly false evidence presented to Parliament. Lord Hain says it’s most disturbing that Bain was earning large fees from SARS and that’s why he’s taking action in the UK. “This is part of a murky picture that I’ve tried to expose in the British parliament, as a member of the House of Lords, in saying that the State Capture story, which looted South African taxpayers terribly, is also being done with the support and active complicity of global corporations like Bain and Company, KPMG, the banks like HSBC and Standard Chartered, and Bank of Baroda. All of which allowed the money to flow out through their financial pipelines,” says Hain. Lord Peter Hain on State Capture report:  Hain has written to UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson asking him to freeze all government contracts with global consultancy firm Bain. Hain says the British government and other public agencies should stop working with Bain until they’ve agreed to cooperate with South African authorities. Hain was an integral witness to Commission’s probe into State capture at the South African Revenue Service. Hain’s testimony at State Capture Commission:  In his letter to No 10 – he says government should continue business subject to Bain repaying the 8 million pounds it received from SARS. The former MP says the money must be paid back to Treasury. Hain says it’s unacceptable that British authorities allow Bain to continue working as a licensed firm and is endorsed by government since it has several contracts in various departments. The first of three parts of the Commission into State Capture report was handed over to President Cyril Ramaphosa and made public. State Capture Report | A look at SARS with Pauli Van Wyk:  