The next population and housing census, Census 2022 by Statistics SA, is scheduled to start from 3 February and run to 28 February 2022. The previous Census conducted by a democratic South African government was in 2011. A Census is a total count, in which all people, including children, babies, the homeless and foreign nationals within the borders of the country, are counted. Census night The de facto Census on Census Night will be on 2 February 2022. Citizens are encouraged to stay put on the night. This will be the first-ever digital count in South Africa. For the first time, people will be able to fill in information remotely. They can also have face-to-face interviews with field workers. Data collection Three methods will be used to collect the census data. For those who will choose to complete the questionnaire remotely, they will need to register their household before the data collection period. Help SA know more about what your community needs. Register your household here: https://t.co/OtJQqZQHkn by 30 Jan 2022 for #SACensus2022. Non-registered households will be visited for face-to-face enumeration. More info here: https://t.co/IKmZxn6rbR#StatsSA #GetCounted pic.twitter.com/omfy7t4pVQ — Stats SA (@StatsSA) January 27, 2022  Field workers During the Census Night, field workers will enumerate the homeless, the transient population, those in communal living quarters such as hotels, B&Bs, hospitals, correctional centres and old age homes. Homeless, people in transit, people in hotels, guest houses, etc. will be counted on Census night, 2 Feb 2022. Door-to-door enumeration of households from 3 Feb. More info here: https://t.co/jO3Cw2uTbF. Register your household here: https://t.co/VCT0GYClGJ pic.twitter.com/xp0TFDuZE0 — Statistician-General Risenga Maluleke (@SGMaluleke) January 25, 2022  Census breakdown The questions of the population and household census, and therefore the results, are broken down into three main sections: geography, people and households. 1. Geography: This includes provincial and municipal boundaries. 2. People: This includes race, gender, language, age, internal migration, citizenship, education and labour status. 3. Households: This section quantifies the type, size and ownership status of dwellings; access to water, toilets, electricity and refuse removal; distribution of household goods and internet access. To participate on Census Night, register via this link: getcounted.STATSSA.gov.za Source: StatsSA