A multi-billion rand project to build a harbour in the Northern Cape is expected to provide much-needed economic relief for the province. The harbour, described by Premier Zamani Saul as a “game changer” is expected to be built at Boegoebaai near Alexander Bay. Saul says plans are underway to ensure that the construction of a harbour begin by 2024. He says R100-million has been earmarked by the provincial government to carry out a feasibility study into the project. Saul says the building of the harbour will cost R13-billion. He is certain it will change the socio-economic status of the province. “Normally such projects take a very long time to get into the execution phase where you actually see dust here and the construction of the harbour. But we are doing quite well in terms of our work. We had our own target that by 2024, 2025 the construction of the project will start,” says the Premier. Job opportunities Residents say they are hopeful the harbour will create job opportunities for all those in the area. Unemployment rates in the province currently stand at 24.9% with expanded unemployment nearing 50%. The planned harbour will also be constructed on a site rich with Nama history. “They are not worried about what’s going to happen with the harbour and all of that they are worried about but they want to know for ancestral purposes what is going to happen and are they going to be included in the discussions,” an Alexander Bay resident explains. “I don’t know if it is just a story or they are going to go on with the plans they have. Because then are going to create job opportunities for the youth that will be a great thing,” another Alexander Bay resident elaborates. “The Community Property Association (CPA) representing hundreds of residents, whose land will be used, says they are concerned the construction of the harbour might disrupt sea life, but are hopeful measures will be put in place to protect the environment,” Nicodemis Swartbooi explains. Last week, government announced another project at Boegoebaai, a R10 billion green hydrogen project.  That project is currently in the feasibility study phase.