Traders selling African National Congress (ANC) merchandise in Polokwane, Limpopo, say they are optimistic that the ANC’s 110th celebrations will assist their businesses to recover from financial losses caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. Small traders from across the country have been selling ANC merchandise outside the entrance of the party’s provincial office in Polokwane since Monday. The party will celebrate the January 8th Statement, which marks its 110th anniversary, at the Peter Mokaba Stadium on Saturday. One of the traders, Pertunia Keetse, who has been selling ANC merchandise for more than 10 years, says she came to Polokwane hoping to make a profit. Keetse, who lives in Pretoria, travels with the party for every event throughout the country. For the past two years because of the pandemic restrictions, business has been slow. She has been in Polokwane since Monday and is not encouraged by sales so far. “It’s been 10 years now. And then eish. I came to Polokwane on Monday, but it’s been very quiet. There’s nothing going on up to so far. So we are hoping for the best maybe Saturday things will get better. But for now, there’s nothing this means a lot. I’ve been doing business all my life. I’ve been selling other things before I get to ANC.” Another trader, Joyce Moloto from Moletji outside Polokwane, is hopeful that sales will pick up on Saturday. Chairperson of Women in Tourism in Limpopo, Grace Sibara, says the ANC’s event has provided an economic boost since the beginning of the week. “Yes, there’s a big boost in the economy in Limpopo. We are happy because as the tourism industry we’ve been trying to recover. We’ve been trying to be engaged in various activities to make money, to make a profit. And we are excited this week, because this weekend actually because there is the ANC conference in Limpopo, especially in the winter, because now is one of the entrepreneurs in the tourism industry in the accommodation sector. We are fully booked.” Most accommodation facilities in Polokwane have been fully booked ahead of the celebrations. Traders hopeful ahead of the ANC 110th birthday celebrations: 