Education expert Professor Mary Metcalfe says that people should not underestimate the loss of time students experience, with classes alternating between online and in-person learning due to the COVID-19 pandemic. She was speaking following the release of the Independent Examination Board (IEB) matric results. The class of 2021 achieved a 98.39% pass rate. Metcalfe has congratulated the class of 2021, adding that access to resources played a role in achieving these results. “Private schools tend to have a certain section of the population attending them, and the research internationally shows that that same group of learners with greater access to support from home and great access to resources would do just as well in the public schools. So, congratulations to all of them.” It has been an upward trajectory for the Class of 2021. The group has registered an increase in the overall pass rate. The number of candidates obtaining bachelor passes also increased. IEB Bachelor passes jump to 89.2% in 2021 from 88.41%  in 2020. Diploma passes at 7.82% for 2021 against 8.14% in 2020. IEB Class of 2021 has achieved a 98.39% pass rate in the matric exams: Anne Oberholzer  Reddam House congratulates matriculants Meanwhile, Western Cape’s Reddam House has congratulated its matriculants on achieving 18 rankings in the top 1% and 91 rankings in the top 5% of all Independent Examination Board candidates per subject nationally. Its matriculants also achieved a 100% rate at seven schools in three provinces. Schools in the Western Cape, including Atlantic Seaboard, Constantia and Durbanville, achieved 379 distinctions, with 37 students having achieved an A-aggregate and 109 students a B-aggregate. 100% pass rate In Eastern Cape, St Andrews College in Makhanda prides itself on maintaining its reputation as one of the top schools in the country in the Independent Examination Board. The school has maintained a pass rate of 100% with most learners attaining quality pass symbols. Some learners got straight A’s in international subjects, including further mathematics. Matriculants at PEPPS Preparatory and College in Polokwane in Limpopo have also produced a 100% pass rate. PEPPS has attained 84% in Bachelor passes. Learners who passed their matric at the school say they are proud of their achievements. Here are some reactions from the matriculants. “I did well. I am proud of myself and I am glad I stuck through the year. “I did my best. It was very difficult but our school made it easy for us. They made sure that we were at school all the time in a safe way. So I am very thankful for that opportunity. “Now that I received my results I am a bit relieved because this was twelve years of my life and now it is finally over. I will take a gap year and figure out what I wanna do in life.” IEB 2021 matric results released:   Both diploma and higher certificate passes showed a slight decrease. Pupils from South Africa, Mozambique, Eswatini and Namibia will also be collecting their result statements on Wednesday. Those who wish for their papers to be remarked have until the 28th of January to apply. -Additional reporting by Mahlako Komane