Learners, parents and educators at Maseala Progressive High School in Polokwane, Limpopo, are celebrating the school’s 100% pass rate in the 2021 Independent Examinations Board (IEB) matric results. The school has improved from the previous year’s performance of 95%. School principal Abraham Mmethi says the main focus of the school was to top the previous year’s results. Mmethi says the school also received enough support. “This has been our goal as a school to attain a one hundred pass rate. Because we wanted to make sure that when parents bring their learners to us we are able to bring them back as someone who can contribute to the economy. Now it is about not looking back, now it is about improving the quality of the past. There are also unsung heroes, our auxiliary staff they do an amazing job, the cleaning staff, the teachers – they did a great job,” explains the principal. In the video below, Limpopo school principal is elated with the results:  The matriculants at the Reddam House in Umhlanga say COVID-19 and the July civil unrest did not deter them from achieving a 100% pass rate. The unrest that took place in July last year claimed the lives of over 350 people as lootings as well as a distraction to business engulfed KwaZulu-Natal and parts of Gauteng. Top learners at the school, Shrien Naidoo and Brogam Rolfe say they are happy that against all odds they managed to get distinctions for their subjects including Maths and Physical Science. “Definitely during the looting in KZN, that was the very difficult time and a scary time for the whole of KZN. Also during the pandemic and throughout the year, the constant disruptions were really not good for our schooling career. But in the end, we made it through and I am very happy with my results,” explains one matriculant. “I am over the moon with my results. I am just relieved to see that my hard work from last year had paid off. It had made me demotivated but you just have to persevere and it taught me to be resilient,” adds another matriculant. In the video below, matriculants express their happiness with their matric results:  Meanwhile, learning and teaching were delayed at Mbozisa Junior Secondary School in the Eastern Cape as the school was flooded. The school was hit by a storm in December last year. The whole block of classrooms was left without roofs, windows and doors. After heavy rains, last night, the remaining classrooms that survived the storm were soaked in water as the roof is leaking. Cleaners had to remove water from the classrooms first before learning could commence. School Governing Body Chairperson, Simon Magwaxaza says the school was already in bad condition even before it was hit by the devastating storm. “The Department of Education said they will do something about the school, but nothing has been done thus far. They came to access the situation, we are worried to send children to other schools,” explains Magwaxaza. MEC for Education in KwaZulu-Natal Kwazi Mshengu on a province-wide visit as schools reopen:  In Mpumalanga, Uplands College in White River has once again achieved a 100% matric pass rate. The school managed a 95% bachelor pass. The school’s best performer is Luke Smythe. Smythe obtained 8 distinctions. He attributed his great performance to hard work and support from teachers and family. “I received distinctions in Maths, English, Afrikaans, Life Orientation, Physics and Biology. I’m actually excited for the future with my good marks. I’m extremely happy … all the hard work pays off. This year I am going to study BSc Mathematical Statistics at the University of Pretoria,” adds Smythe. -Additional reporting by Eric Lubisi, Zolani Moya and Nonkululeko Hlophe