Sam Junior Mbatha’s family in Mabopane has finally accepted that their son is no more. The 24-year old went missing in June last year after his burnt car was found with the charred remains of a body in the boot. Although there were suspicions that, the body could be that of Sam, his family remained hopeful, that he may still be alive. This hope was shattered last week when DNA tests positively identified the charred remains as his. Four people, aged between 19 & 22, have been arrested in relation to the murder. Three were released on bail while the other suspect is still in custody. Junior Mbatha was once a hardworking local presenter and marketing professional and his family had high hopes for him. Sam Junior Mbatha’s family finally accepts that their son is no more after DNA tests:  The 24-year old Mbatha was last seen on the 16th of June last year. His car was found burnt at the local sports ground the following day, with the charred remains of a body in the boot. The police traced his family after identifying the car. A call that changed their lives. “I was not doing well at all. I requested to see the car and it was indeed his. They then told me that there are people who will come and collect DNA samples from me. We waited for the results for a long time. I could not sleep nor eat, I always looked at the window thinking that he will come and say he was kidnapped or something,” explains Sam’s mother Constance Mbatha. More than six months later, the results finally came back positive, confirming their worst fears. “We received the results and they confirmed that the remains were his. I was confused. Yes I know I cried for a very long time, but this meant it is now over. I will never see my child again. Yes, they have been arrested. Let the law take its course, but that won’t return him. I will never see him again. He was my only boy,” Mbatha added. The family expected Mbatha to improve the living conditions of the family. He was self-driven and motivated, enough evidence of what the future had for him. “We thought this boy will assist his mother because he promised his mother that he will do everything for her since well they have been struggling following the death of his father,” says Rosina Kubayi: Sam’s Aunt. His friends have now, also found closure. “It has been very challenging every day trying to keep the strength to get where we are today, we will now get some closure and say farewell to our friend,” Sam’s friend. “I will remember him as a go-getter. He was unwavering and he could not stop when he wants something,” Sam’s other friend added. This gruesome discovery of a crime scene where Sam Junior Mbatha’s car was found led to the arrest of four suspects. The accused who are aged between 19 and 22 years are expected to appear before the Ga-Rankuwa Magistrate’s Court on Tuesday.