Over 500 homes have been affected by the storms in the OR Tambo District Municipality in the Eastern Cape over the weekend, while over 262 people have been left homeless. The weather first wreaked havoc at the beginning of December last year, leaving six people dead in the area. Now, two people have died in the Nyandeni area, following flash floods and a thunderstorm that damaged houses, health facilities and schools. This is the second time that Nyandeni and Mhlontlo have been hit by devastating storms. A 17-year-old boy was swept away by floodwater on his way from a football game on Saturday. His body was found 24 hours later, a few kilometres from where he drowned. “We are in pain because we did not expect this. He went to play. We did not think we will ever see him again. We reported to the police, (and) they said they will come. The community helped us search for him and we found him yesterday. We do not know how we are going to bury him because we are all unemployed here. Even my mother depends on social grant,” says the victim’s uncle Xolile Nqunqu. Flooding claimed six lives in the Buffalo City Metro over the weekend:  The second victim was struck by a lightning on the same day. His family has appealed for assistance. “There was loud thunder. I have never heard thunder so loud. So, I thought I should go and check if it did not cause any damage. When I got to my brother’s rondavel the door was broken. He was lying on the floor. When I got closer (I noticed) he was not breathing. We are only left with one rondavel that is leaking. We ask for help with the burial. We don’t have anything,” says family spokesperson, Mfundisen Tshwathi. The municipality says it is still collecting data in the areas affected by a hailstorm over the weekend. “We have put up a multi-sectoral team led by the municipality to make sure they interact with the family to engage on where they will require assistance in terms of burial. With the other family, they have nothing as we speak. We will make sure by the time we go back to the office they will be housed,” says Mesuli Ngqondwana, OR Tambo District Municipality Mayor. Residents in the affected areas have called on the government to prioritise housing as many now share the only huts that survived the storm. Residents in parts of Eastern Cape picking up the pieces after devastating hailstorm:   