Tributes are pouring in following the death of former Free State Police, Roads and Transport MEC Butana Komphela. Komphela died in hospital on Monday afternoon where he had been admitted for a month. The African National Congress (ANC) in the province says he will be remembered for touching the lives of many citizens and his uncompromising stance to see the lives of the struggling masses change for the better. A warm and bubbly family man, that’s how those closest to him describe 65-year-old Komphela. To his comrades in the ANC, he was a committed member of the revolutionary movement. Komphela served as the chairperson of Parliament’s portfolio committee in sport. ANC Interim Provincial Committee, spokesperson Oupa Khoabane says Komphela left a legacy that would be a challenge for younger generation to emulate. “As the ANC, we are devastated because this is the person who was bringing the necessary energy in the ANC and the ideas that he was bringing was the idea that were taking the ANC forward but especially in the fight to change the lives of the people. We are encouraging members of the ANC especially the young ones to take up where he left off. And ensure that we change the lives of the people for the better.” The Democratic Alliance (DA) has also sent their condolences. “The Democratic Alliance in the Free State has learnt with sadness of the death of the former MEC for Police, Roads and Transport, Butana Komphela. We wish to convey our sincerest condolences to the Komphela family and to the African National Congress whom he represented,”  says DA provincial leader Roy Jankielsohn. The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) in the former MEC was a dynamic leader who was able to work with opposition parties. Provincial EFF deputy chairperson, Mahlomola Majeke says the ANC has lost a pillar. “We would like to send our condolences to the family of ntate Komphela. We have known him; we have worked with him in the past. He was one of our pillars of the African National Congress which make me to extend our condolences to the African National Congress as a party, we know they have lost one of their pillar. We are all saddened. May his soul rest in peace.” The Congress of the People (COPE) national spokesperson Dennis Bloem has described Komphela as a humble and dedicated servant of the people. “We will never forget the contribution of comrade Komphela. I was detained many a times with comrade Komphela and other comrades in the Free State. When the apartheid government declared a state of emergency in 1985 we were again detained and put into detention without trial. We are passing our heartfelt condolences to his wife, his family, his friends his comrades, his political party the ANC may his soul rest in peace.” The South African Communist Party (SACP) Second Deputy Secretary in the Free State, Mojalefa Simango also sent a message of condolence to the family and the ANC. “As the SACP in the Free State, we are shocked by the news we received that comrade Butana Komphela has passed away. We lower our flags and we want to send our condolences to the family, friends and the organization that he belongs to which is the African National Congress. May his revolutionary spirit rest in peace,” Mojalefa Simango. Komphela leaves behind his wife, two sons and a daughter.