The Speaker of the National Assembly Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula and the Chairperson of the National Council of Provinces Amos Masondo are on Friday expected to announce the official venue for the 2022 State-of-the-Nation Address (SONA). Western Cape Mayor Geordin Hill-Lewis offered the Cape Town City Hall for SONA shortly after the fire that caused extensive damage to the National Assembly and the Old Assembly buildings. President Cyril Ramaphosa will deliver the address next month. The City Hall is an iconic building from whose balcony Nelson Mandela delivered his historic speech after the apartheid regime released him from prison in 1990. SONA to go ahead despite Parliament fire: Mapisa-Nqakula  Meanwhile, the ACDP says the State-of-the-Nation-Address (SONA) could be hosted in Cape Town or through a hybrid sitting. ACDP Member of Parliament Steve Swart says, “The ACDP believes that the State-of-the-Nation-Address should this year be held in the Cape Town City Hall following the tragic fire which gutted the Assembly. This venue can accommodate a sufficient number of people with due COVID-19 protocols in place. Consideration could also be given that it could also be a hybrid sitting where other members of Parliament could join on a virtual platform. What is crucial is that the State-of-the-Nation-Address takes place at a suitable venue on the 10th of February at a suitable venue to allow the President to address the nation on the state of the nation.” On Thursday, COPE called on Ramaphosa to address the nation and Parliament virtually from the Union Buildings during his State-of-the-Nation-Address. COPE spokesperson Dennis Bloem says, ” The burning of Parliament is a very emotional and unforgivable crime against the people of South Africa. For the first time in the history of the country, the president cant deliver the state of the nation address from Parliament. Now the Speaker with other presiding officers must scramble for an alternative venue. We do understand that there are offers from some institutions. Our view is that President Ramaphosa must address Parliament and the Nation virtually from the union buildings” Additional reporting by SABC News Parliament Correspondent Mercedes Besent. 