Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga says the Free State has achieved the highest matric pass rate at 85,7% – which is an improvement of 0.6% from 2020. The Minister was presenting the national matric results at the SABC’s Auckland Park offices in Johannesburg, on Thursday evening. Gauteng came in second place with a pass rate of 82,8% – which is a one percentage point decline from last year. Gauteng was followed by the Western Cape with 81.2% – an increase of one point three percent. Motshekga says only one province failed to breach the 70% pass rate.  Overall pass rate Minister Motshekga has announced that the 2021 National Senior Certificate overall pass rate, with the progressed learners included, stands at 76.4%. She says this is an improvement of 0.2% from the pass rate achieved by the Class of 2020. She says the improvement comes despite the challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Department earlier said the matric class of 2021 was the largest ever. She also congratulates the principals, teachers, support staff. “In celebrating the great achievements of the Class of 2021, we must thank the principals, teachers, support staff, and parents for the work they continue to do. Schools are at the coalface of Basic Education delivery.” 2021 National Senior Certificate Examination Results announcement:   Minister Motshekga: All hands must be on deck, as the Class of 2022 may face three consecutive years of hardship, brought on us by the pandemic of COVID-19 and its variants. We therefore encourage our 12-17 year-old learners to vaccinate but do so with parental consent. — Dep. Basic Education (@DBE_SA) January 20, 2022  Systemic Evaluation The Minister says her department will introduce a Systemic Evaluation study in Grades three, six, and nine – next month and in March – which she says are critical exit points prior to Grade 12. Motshekga says the study of the three grades will assist in better understanding the learning trajectory from primary to secondary schools. She says it will also give a more comprehensive picture of the impact of COVID-19. “Within this framework, the Department has taken initial steps towards the introduction of a General Education Certificate (GEC) in 2023 – a commitment that was made in 1995 by our democratic Government in the very first White Paper on Education and Training, Government Notice No.196 of 1995.” SABC matric results app Matric learners have been encouraged to register now on the SABC matric results app to gain access to their results as soon as they become available after midnight tonight. SABC Education partnered with Basic Education to make matric results easily accessible through the MatricMate app. Matrics can register to receive their results by SMSing their exam number to 45856 or dialing *120*45856# and entering the exam number.