Disaster management officials from the Lekwa Teemane Local Municipality in Bloemhof and Christiana in the North West, are on high alert following heavy rains in the catchment area of the Vaal River. A number of families living along the Vaal River in the Bloemhof-Christiana areas, have already been evacuated. Earlier this week, the Water and Sanitation Department ordered that two more sluice gates at the already full Vaal Dam be opened. This is in addition to the three sluice gates that are already open. The continued heavy rain across the country has forced the Water and Sanitation Department to open five sluice gates at the Vaal Dam. This has resulted in rising of water levels in the Vaal River, forcing the opening of sluices at the Bloemhof dam further down stream. Communities and businesses along the river in both Bloemhof and Christiana have been placed on high alert. The authorities say although the water level has drastically increased, there is no need to worry yet. “As you can see there is a lot of water. But with this lot of water, we really positive that nothing will happen with us. We feel sorry for the farmers in the area because the farmers in the area have got the most difficult task. Their lands are washed away there is roads closed everything. So we blessed to see this water and we got no fear in our hearts at all,” says guesthouse owner Sias Meyer. The increase in the water levels has also impacted on those who make a living by catching and selling fish. A fisherman had this to say.. “The river is over flowing and we are unable to catch big fishes that normally pays well. We are only able to catch small ones and they are not selling.” Speaker of the Lekwa Teemane Local Municipality, Mpho Pilane, says close to 20% of the 83 families that live along the Vaal River, have already been evacuated. “We have actually assisted in terms of the evacuation of more than 20% of the people who are staying next to the river. But I must equally indicate that those that are beyond the flood line have not been evacuated because the water has not reached the level of their houses. But those that are at the flood line, have already evacuated safely. I must also indicate that we have not had any casualties in terms of the drowning.” The Weather Service has predicted more rain in the coming days and those living along the river hope that they will not experience severe flooding like they did in 2010. 