The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) says that it rejects the World Bank loan of R11. 5 billion awarded to South Africa. The loan is said to be aimed at supporting the government’s efforts to protect the poor from the adverse effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. However, EFF Secretary General Marshall Dlamini says this forms part of a programme to sell off the country piece by piece. The EFF is holding a two day meeting in Boksburg on Gauteng’s East Rand to prepare its Programme of Action for for the coming year. Marshall elaborates, “As the EFF we reject that money from the IMF and we have said that that there are other means and ways of raising money in South Africa before we rush to those are going to colonise and take over the country you could see even that announcement by [President] Cyril [Ramaphosa] that we should start reducing coal production, you can see where it is funded from because we have enough coal in this country to ensure that we develop this country. It’s a cheaper source of energy in this county but already those that are taking money from the IMF, they have already started working on this situation so you can see its a ploy of colonising this country.” [DAY 1]: SG @DlaminiMarshall speaking on the Provincial People’s Assemblies which are set to take place this year. #EFFPlenum2022 pic.twitter.com/2cre15PS3L — Economic Freedom Fighters (@EFFSouthAfrica) January 22, 2022  The party is expected to discuss its governance arrangements in various municipalities, following last year’s local government elections. It will also discuss preparations for its provincial people’s assemblies to be held this year ahead of the their national elective conference scheduled for 2024. “Over the last two years, we were living under a pandemic where we had some gaps in terms of rebuilding the organisation and that is why we say this is a year of public recruitment so our people can come and build the EFF in quality in quantity as well to make sure that have leaders and that we are represented in every part of South Africa as resolved by order founding assembly. We must be the vanguard and protectors of our communities we must be found where there are challenges and difficulties in our communities.” [In Pictures]: We are back in Plenum. The leadership of the EFF is discussing the political overview at the #EFFPlenum2022 pic.twitter.com/eaGcjOQuFY — Economic Freedom Fighters (@EFFSouthAfrica) January 22, 2022 