The head of security implicated in the assault case of the Amathole District Municipal councillor in the Eastern Cape has been suspended pending the finalisation of the investigation. This after a video that went viral in social media platforms showing Nanziwe Rulashe being dragged out of office yesterday by people claiming to be security officers. The video sparked public outrage. The head of security and four other accused charged with assault were on Monday night released from police custody in Cambridge, East London in the Eastern Cape on R500 bail. The suspects will appear in court again in March. Municipal spokesperson Nonceba Madikizela-Vuso says, “The municipality has taken a step to suspend the Head of Security of the District pending the finalisation of the investigation. We have also requested the security company that provides services to the municipality to act against the security officials that were responsible for the unfortunate act of violence.” “The security company has to provide us with a report regarding remedial actions taken. We have managed to get the names of the security personnel involved and we will ensure that they never get to work in any building of Amathole District Municipality,” explains Madikizela-Vuso. Meanwhile, Rulashe says she fears for her life. She says her understanding of the duties of the security officers employed by the municipality is to not only protect the property of the institution but also those that occupy the building, including her. Councillor Rulashe alleges that her only transgression was to insist on doing things the proper way in an institution where she is a political principal deployed as the strategic planning portfolio head. Rulashe says she is still traumatised by the incident. “It has put my dignity to a level that l cannot even express. I was humiliated and I am not feeling good about it. I am really traumatized. I am not even fit to go to the offices because that’s my workplace and I was dragged out of those offices.” Rulashe speaks to SABC News in the video below: 