Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula has announced a multi-billion rand private investment by companies operating in the Port of Durban, the Richards Bay harbour, and in the Port of Ngqura in Gqeberha in the Eastern Cape. The investment includes the first South African-owned chemical tanker company that will operate at the Port of Ngqura. A much-needed capital infrastructure investment to optimise port efficiency. The Port of Durban has the busiest container terminal in Africa, handling up to 31.4 million tons of cargo each year. The investment unveiled by Mbalula comes at a time when the maritime industry is trying to recover from the COVID-19 pandemic. @MbalulaFikile The direct contributions include revenue to Transnet and the municipality of Richards Bay of R338 million per annum, local procurement spend of R2 billion per annum, and contribution to the tax base of R1.1 billion per annum. @GovernmentZA pic.twitter.com/NxragwnxuV — Department of Transport (@Dotransport) January 24, 2022  Among the investments at the Port of Durban includes a liquid bulk terminal built. Mbalula says an onshore liquid gas regasification facility will be built at the Port of Ngqura. “The Strategic Fuel Fund will construct an onshore Liquid Natural Gas (LNG) regasification facility at the Port of Ngqura. The total project value is estimated at $1.5 billion. Mnambithi Terminals will develop and operate a liquid bulk terminal at the Maydon Wharf 6 in the Port of Durban. The investment aims at contributing towards sustainable job creation during the construction and operations phases of the project. The construction phase will create over 1 500 temporary direct and other indirect job opportunities.” Mnambithi Terminals will develop and operate a liquid bulk terminal at the Maydon Wharf 6 in the Port of Durban. The construction phase will create over 1 500 temporary direct and other indirect job opportunities. pic.twitter.com/m9ZshTWdwW — FIKILE MBALULA | MR FIX (@MbalulaFikile) January 24, 2022  Mbalula visits the Port of Durban to unveil investments in the marine sector:  Dormac Marine Engineering at the Port of Durban is also investing in infrastructure upgrades. It’s been at the port since 1903. Its customers include ships from neighbouring countries like Mozambique. The company’s managing director, Sparg Dormac, says the company’s infrastructure investment will enhance its operations and competitiveness. “Domac has done a 400 million investment into a new floating dock which enables us to take ships out of the water and to do dry docking. Our intention is to continue with that investment and we are looking into continuing to expand bringing additional floating docks into South Africa. In addition to that, we want to expand our machine shops and also double their capacity. Thirdly to continue to build further crane infrastructure in the yard to enable the yard to take on Mozambique LNB projects in the future.” The National Transport Department says the investment will contribute to the recovery of the maritime industry, which was among the hardest hit during the COVID-19 pandemic. We call on the private sector to participate in the broader agenda of developing and improving our ports operations. These investments are a catalyst towards the realisation of tangible economic interventions and improving the competitiveness… https://t.co/Brh5knwekq pic.twitter.com/tI3PBwGVF7 — FIKILE MBALULA | MR FIX (@MbalulaFikile) January 24, 2022 