Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader Julius Malema says heads must roll, as the country can’t continue to be subjected to fire breakouts at national key points, as a result of what he says is negligence. He was reacting in Johannesburg to the recent incident which saw a fire at the depot of the Waterkloof Airforce Base in Pretoria. Defence authorities say South Africans should not to be alarmed as things are under control. Earlier this month, parts of the National Assembly at Parliament were burnt down, while the Constitutional Court was damaged with a hammer. Malema says if it was in a different country, someone would have been arrested or taken some responsibility. “You can’t burn the assets of the public and there are no consequences. Someone must with humidity and say I did not do anything even though I’m not saying I’ve done anything wrong. But the fact that this thing burnt under my supervision, I’m going to resign. I don’t know why by now we didn’t ask why the secretary of Parliament has not yet resigned, why is your consciousness not telling you that you must resign,” Julius Malema explains. Malema also defended the party’s decision to disband the Limpopo provincial leadership over the weekend. He says they can’t tolerate leaders who are lazy and therefore action needed to be taken. The EFF held its Central Command Team meeting in Boksburg, Johannesburg, over the weekend. Reports suggest that it is where Malema and the rest of the leadership took a decision to let go of the Limpopo provincial leadership. Malema has told the media that an interim leadership will be deployed to Limpopo soon. VIDEO: EFF leader Julius Malema addresses the media on Tuesday 25 January 2022:  Meanwhile, the South African National Defence Force (SANDF) says operations at Waterkloof Airforce Base in Pretoria have not been disrupted. This comes as investigations are continuing to determine the cause of Sunday’s fire. Waterkloof Airforce Base officials have ruled out foul play following Sunday night’s fire at the base in Centurion, south of Pretoria. Senior officials say the base is well-secured.