A medical report by a state-appointed pulmonologist will determine whether former Bosasa Chief Operations Officer Angelo Agrizzi is eligible to stand trial in the R 1.8 billion Bosasa fraud and corruption case. Agrizzi, former Correctional Services Commissioner Linda Mti, former Chief Financial Officer Patrick Gillingham and former Bosasa executive, Andries van Tonder face charges related to four tenders awarded to Bosasa and its subsidiaries between 2004 and 2007. The contracts included the rendering of catering and training services, installation of CCTV cameras and fencing. The Pretoria Specialised Crimes Court has transferred the matter to the High Court, but it is not clear if Agrizzi will attend as he hasn’t been to previous appearances due to claims of ill health. The matter is set to go to the High Court on March the 23rd. The National Prosecution Authority(NPA) Spokesperson, Sindisiwe Seboka says the medical report outcome will impact his eligibility to stand trial in this matter. “The investigating directorate will at the next appearance come with a medical outcome after the state-appointed pulmonologist examined Angelo Agrizzi in a separate matter. The outcome will impact his eligibility to stand trial in this matter. The ID has however further made concessions that Agrizzi’s co-accused matter will be transferred to the High Court with or without Agrizzi,” says Seboka. Agrizzi granted bail by the High Court in Johannesburg In 2020, Agrizzi was granted bail by the High Court in Johannesburg. Agrizzi has been in jail since the 14th of October after the Specialised Commercial Crimes Court sitting in the Palm Ridge Magistrate’s Court refused to grant him bail. He is facing a corruption charge which relates to the payments made to former  African National Congress (ANC) Member of Parliament, Vincent Smith, who is also on bail for fraud and corruption. Although Agrizzi has been in jail, he is at a private hospital under police guard after having a heart attack. Agrizzi’s bail conditions include that he check in with police once a week once he’s discharged from hospital. Angelo Agrizzi in court: