Car dealership Director Mogamad Adiel Mukudam, who is linked to alleged underworld figure Nafiz Modack, has been arrested on charges of corruption, fraud and money laundering. He appeared briefly in the Cape Town Magistrate’s Court on Thursday, following his arrest by the National Task Team which is working on the murder case of Lieutenant-Colonel Charl Kinnear. The court has granted Mukudam bail of R 25 000. He is expected to appear again in the Cape Town Magistrate’s court on the 24th of February. The arrest comes in the wake of allegations of R 3 million that was allegedly paid to a former top police officer, through a third party, who used the account of Empire Investments Cars which is associated with Modack. Police spokesperson Katlego Mogale says, “The ownership of Empire Investment Cars is also the subject of ongoing investigation with more persons of interest being looked at. It appears that the ownership was changed fraudulently with Adiel Mukudam acting in concert with others to disguise the money laundering activities.” Criminal complaint Meanwhile, the office of Police Minister Bheki Cele has confirmed that a criminal complaint is expected to be laid against National Police Commissioner, Khehla Sitole, for allegedly refusing to cooperate with the independent police investigative directorate (Ipid) probe into the murder of Kinnear. In 2021, the case against alleged underworld kingpin, Nafiz Modack and anti-gang unit policeman, Ashley Tabisher was transferred to the Blue Downs regional court in Cape Town. The pair made a brief appearance in the Bishop Lavis Magistrate’s Court on a charge of corruption and money laundering. It is alleged that Modack offered Tabisher R 10 000, and a cell phone in exchange for information on when police would carry out operations against him. Modack also faces a slew of other charges including conspiracy to commit murder, attempted murder and extortion. Nafiz Modack case transferred to the Blue Downs regional court in Cape Town: