The funeral service of the late Archbishop Desmond Tutu is officially under way inside the St George’s Cathedral in Cape Town. Outside, the rain has simmered down as local and international media, some covered in plastic to ward off the light drizzle, fill up Wale Street next to the church. Tutu will be given what in the Anglican church is known as the Eucharist funeral, which among others, is expected to depict the life of Jesus Christ and encourage a Christ-like life. This will include some rituals like the sprinkling of the coffin with water which resembles the baptism that takes place when one is welcomed into the ministry. Archbishop #DesmondTutu will be given what in the Anglican is known as a Eucharist funeral which among other things encourages a Christ-like life. Certain rituals like sprinkling the coffin with water will be performed by Archbishop Thabo Makgoba. #SABCNews #RIPDesmondTutu pic.twitter.com/BIbYFs7oLx — Sipho King K Kekana (@KingKAzania) January 1, 2022  Amid wet condition, dignitaries, including president Cyril Ramaphosa and former President Kgalema Motlanthe began arriving from around 8am. President Cyril Ramaphosa and former President Kgale a Motlanthe are some of the dignitaries who have arrived for the funeral service of the late Archbishop #DesmondTutu. The funeral is expected to take place between 10am and 12am in Cape Town. #SABCNews #RIPDesmondTutu pic.twitter.com/y93Ynzra1n — Sipho King K Kekana (@KingKAzania) January 1, 2022  The funeral service programme is the culmination of years of planning by the Archbishop who gave detailed instructions on how his funeral should conducted, who should speak, which hymns should be sang including their versions. The Imilonji Kantu Choral Society as well as the Soweto Gospel Choir are some of the choirs that will sing at funeral as per Archbishop #DesmondTutu‘s instruction. #SABCNews #RIPDesmondTutu Video: https://t.co/FPB14nLoDm pic.twitter.com/nteTWYFdxD — Sipho King K Kekana (@KingKAzania) January 1, 2022  A popular Sotho hymn, Ha Ke Le Tje Ke Le Mobe, which was very dear to Tutu’s mother as well as Lizalis’ idinga lakho meaning Fullfill or realise your promise are some of the songs the Arch order they be sung during his funeral service. There will be no speakers during the funeral service of Archbishop #DesmondTutu‘s church-led service as per the Arch’s instructions. However, President Cyril Ramaphosa will read the Eulogy and hand over the flag to the widow Mrs Leah Tutu.#SABCNews #RIPDesmondTutu #DesmondTutuRIP pic.twitter.com/UlVuM1p5sI — Sipho King K Kekana (@KingKAzania) January 1, 2022  Archbishop Desmond Tutu Funeral Service: Some people in the vicinity of Parliament and the St Georges Cathedral have described Saturday’s rain as a blessing from God to a man of God.