The African National Congress (ANC) in the Northern Cape has pronounced its support for party President Cyril Ramaphosa’s second term. Provincial chairperson Zamani Saul made the declaration at the ANC’s provincial 110th-anniversary celebration at the Cille Sports ground near Kakamas. Limpopo was the first province to verbalise their support for Ramaphosa’s second term at the party’s January 8 celebrations held last month “We pronounce as the Northern Cape that we still have confidence in the leadership of Cyril Ramaphosa to continue with the renewal agenda. As the African National Congress in the Northern Cape, we’ve got confidence in the leadership of comrade Cyril to continue to lead and champion the renewal programme of the African National Congress.” Sisulu, Ramaphosa spat Saul also weighed in on the debacle between Tourism Minister Lindiwe Sisulu and President Cyril Ramaphosa, saying democratic institutions such as the judiciary should be protected so that democracy can thrive. “From 1994 we’ve made some major strides, we got a judiciary that resolves disputes in communities without fail. We have lot of other institutions that include the Office of the Public Protector in defence of the constitution, we got a Parliament, so that’s a call to all of us that in 2022, we must defend our democratic gains.” ANC in Northern Cape throws weight behind party President Cyril Ramaphosa for second term:  Premature endorsements Political analyst Enoch Maponya says the premature endorsements of the candidates could have political repercussions. “It is better for members of the ANC to wait until the party allows them to start campaigning for their candidates. This premature announcement is a ploy to apply for jobs under Cyril Ramaphosa. If it happens that the candidate concern does not win, the winning candidate will find it difficult to accommodate them in the new structure, like cabinet, and so on. We saw this in 2017, after structures like the ANC Youth League, the Women’s League, MKVA loudly started canvassing for Nkosazana Dlamini- Zuma and when she didn’t win, some of them, if not most, have not been accommodated in the new structure under Cyril Ramaphosa.” 