Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader Julius Malema says his party will take up the fight to resolve sewerage challenges in the Mangaung Metro Municipality. He says the municipality should be ashamed as it has the capacity, but fails to deliver. Malema was on an oversight inspection in areas that have been affected by sewage spills in Bloemfontein. Residents say they have been battling the problem for some time. There are four manholes overflowing with sewage in just one street, making it difficult for residents to walk and move around. Residents say this poses health hazards, as they can’t bear the stench that comes with it. The raw sewage is flowing into people’s yards and homes. One of the residents says, “We have a big problem with sewer, especially in the locations. We can’t tolerate this, we have several times talked to the councillors, even the new ones are saying they are just starting but this is continuing.” “Sewage issues affect the health of people, totally it is not good,” says another resident. The Mangaung Metro has attributed the challenges to the overburdened infrastructure. Spokesperson of Mangaung Metro Qondile Khedama says, “We are working on an immediate plan to deal with these spillages. But also, the executive mayor in his 100 days program will be dealing with the long-term infrastructure challenges that are there in the city. We want to assure the community of Mangaung that this is the matter that is receiving the utmost attention. We understand that the hygiene of the community is highly affected, and we want to apologise. All the inquiries that are brought to the attention of the city are being attended”. EFF leader Julius Malema says political differences should be put aside and that all parties must work together for service delivery to be prioritised. “The whole night they were fixing even now they are there still fixing. They are saying they are not from the municipality, they got hired this morning. One of the ANC people in ward 1, who was defending the councillor saying that he is new, he doesn’t know anything and there’s no money. If you say there’s no money, where did the money come from between yesterday and today”. Malema says his party will take up this matter to Parliament.