The Mhaule and Khoza families in Mbombela, Mpumalanga, are unhappy with the 41-year sentence handed down to former police officer Bonginkosi Malinga by the Mpumalanga High Court. Malinga shot and killed his girlfriend, Goodness Mhaule and Sibusiso Khoza, in December 2019, after he found them inside a vehicle at Mhaule’s residence in Pienaar. He also attempted to kill Mhaule’s brother during the shooting. Malinga murdered Goodness Mhaule and Sibusiso Khoza in December 2019 in a hail of bullets, after he found them inside a vehicle parked at Mhaule’s home. Mhaule alighted from the car trying to run away. Malinga followed her, unleashing a hail of bullets. Mhaule’s brother, Elvis, came out from the house. He was also shot and injured. Both Khoza and Goodness were declared dead at the scene. The former policeman then handed himself over to the police. During his bail application, which was not granted he denied that he killed his girlfriend. He claimed she was caught in a crossfire. He told the court that Mhaule’s brother, Elvis, also unleashed fire. During his trial, he apologised to both families. According to the evidence presented in court, Malinga was off-duty on the day of the incident. But, he used his service pistol to commit the crime. It was also confirmed that he went to a local tavern around Pienaar to get an extra magazine before heading to Mahule’s home. Upon arrival, he found Mhaule with Khoza and drew his firearm, and fatally shot both of them. Goodness Mhaule’s elder brother, Michael, says they still have a vivid memory of the incident. “As family, we are not satisfied with the way the magistrate takes Bonginkosi to the prison. We are not satisfied, instead we were expecting two life sentences because he had two murders and one attempted. At least two life sentence, 23 is nothing what about a person who commits rape, we are not satisfied,” argues Michael. Mhaule will serve 23 years for the murder of his girlfriend, 15 years for killing Sibusiso Khoza and three years for the attempted murder of Elvis Mhaule which the court ordered to run concurrently.