The African Transformation Movement (ATM) says it wants to congratulate President of the Supreme Court of Appeal, Mandisa Maya following the recommendation by the Judicial Service Commission to be appointed as the next Chief Justice of South Africa. The ATM is calling on President Cyril Ramaphosa to appoint her without delay. The announcement came after deliberations by the JSC on Saturday, following the conclusion of interviews with all four candidates last week. The other three candidates who were interviewed were Acting Chief Justice Raymond Zondo, Constitutional Court Justice, Mbuyiseli Madlanga and Judge President of the Gauteng High Court Division, Dunstan Mlambo. During Ramaphosa’s consultation with leaders of political parties in the National Assembly on the four selected candidates last year, the ATM was one of the political parties that wrote to him to appoint  Maya. The party has now welcomed the recommendation by the JSC. ATM Spokesperson, Zama Ntshona says, “As the ATM, we observed all the interviews of the four candidates, and we are convinced that the decision by the JSC is a sound, rational and meritorious decision. Unlike any of her competitors, Justice Maya’s age allows her a unique opportunity to complete her full term uninterrupted and thus she would be able to see her victim through.” “The ATM is impressed with Justice Maya’s track record on various aspects that were probed by the interviewing panel, whether it be leadership skills, administrative capacity, technical skills, including writing hundreds of judgements, some of which were in an indigenous language, IsiXhosa. Her grasp of the challenges facing the Constitutional Court and (the) judiciary in General are above par, ” Ntshona adds. Vision statement He says in her vision statement she articulated a very clear concise and realistic road map, including improving the credibility and integrity of the judiciary in the eye in our society. “As the ATM, we are hopeful that President Ramaphosa will respect the diversity of skills that the investment by the members of the JSC who used objective criteria to arrive at their decision. The decision of the JSC has been widely echoed in various social media platforms and by South Africans in general. And thus, the country is waiting in anticipation of her confirmation as Chief Justice and the first woman in South Africa to achieve such a historic milestone,” says Ntshona. He says the ATM believes that South Africans across the racial divide are eagerly awaiting Maya to ascend to the top position in the judiciary. “As the ATM, we also welcome that the interview of Justice Maya did not cause ructions, divisions and evil suspicions. Instead it created unity among all South Africans across all races and gender. For once, the women of South Africa took a break from celebrating men and were jubilant in witnessing the unparalleled competence of one of their own. This JSC recommendation represents a major and difficult step in the transformation of our society in particular the judiciary. As the ATM, we are calling on President Ramaphosa to seize this moment and do the right thing without any further delay,” emphasised Ntshona. SONA Meanwhile if Ramaphosa approves the JSC’s recommendation and decides to appoint Maya effectively before the State of the Nation Address, she could lead the procession of the judiciary as Chief Justice during SONA on Thursday. SONA is an annual address made by the President to the nation, through a Joint Sitting of Parliament. It is the only annual event which brings all three arms of the state,  the Judiciary, Parliament and the Executive under one roof. JSC Interview | Justice Mandisa Maya 