The trial of former spokesperson of the Umkhonto we Sizwe Military Veterans Association, Carl Niehaus, is set to continue in the Estcourt Magistrate’s Court in the KwaZulu-Natal Midlands on Friday. His legal team is expected to show video footage of how Niehaus was arrested. Niehaus is being charged with the contravention of COVID lockdown regulations that, at the time, only allowed gatherings for funerals. VIDEO: Niehaus arrested outside Estcourt prison during a SABC interview:  Niehaus’s legal team is expected to continue their cross-examination of police Captain Benedict Moss. It was Moss who arrested Niehaus outside the Estcourt prison in July last year. It happened the same day that former President Jacob Zuma was incarcerated at that prison to serve a 15-month contempt of court sentence. On Thursday, Moss told the court that Niehaus disregarded his warning that no gatherings were allowed and continued to address a gathering outside the prison. However, Niehaus’s advocate, Nthabiseng Mokoena, said Niehaus was there to visit Zuma. 50 people Police Brigadier Francis Dantgan testified that Niehaus, spoke to more than 50 people outside the town’s prison when he was arrested in July of last year. Dantgan also testified that people who gathered at the local courthouse earlier that day dispersed when the police asked them to. My farcical COVID-19 trial of political persecution is continuing today. The state will conclude their non-existent case, and my brilliant advocate #NthabisengMokoena will continue to tear apart their pathetic witnesses. There’s no case: We’ll apply for a section 174 discharge . pic.twitter.com/cVTolWGISu — Carl Niehaus (@niehaus_carl) February 18, 2022  I’m up against this today: Trumped-up COVID-19 charges abused for persecution. Mxm, the State prosecutor wants me sentenced to 6 months imprisonment, without the option of a fine. They’re hell-bent to get me into jail. I will not be intimidated nor silenced! A LUTA CONTINUA! pic.twitter.com/JvKjZT17o7 — Carl Niehaus (@niehaus_carl) February 17, 2022 