Acting Chief Justice Raymond Zondo says he knew it would be difficult to find someone to agree to chair the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture and that he would make a lot of enemies. The Judicial Services Commission (JSC) is interviewing Zondo in Sandton, Johannesburg, for the position of the country’s Chief Justice. He responded to a question posed by Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP) Member of Parliament and JSC, Commissioner Narend Singh regarding the narrative that he was biased against former President Jacob Zuma and favoured President Cyril Ramaphosa. “I don’t think that they present any facts as I see it. I think its just their perception and I am not pro-anybody, I am not anti-anybody. I made the decision as chairperson of the commission way back in 2018 that President Ramaphosa would have to appear before the commission because he was part of the executive during the time when these allegations of state capture happened.” Earlier, Zondo confirmed that the court has not had a permanent white judge on the bench for some time. JSC Interviews I Previewing Acting Chief Justice Raymond Zondo’s interview:  Zondo said the JSC will meet in April to consider the appointment of two judges to fill the vacancies. He said it will be an opportunity for the JSC to consider the matter and make a decision. Zondo was responding to a question from Supreme Court of Appeal Deputy President Xola Petse who is chairing proceedings at the interviews for the country’s next Chief Justice in Sandton, Johannesburg. Petse wanted Zondo to comment on the issue based on a constitutional requirement that racial and gender composition should be reflected when considering the appointment of judicial officers. In his response, Zondo said, “There is one Acting Judge in the Constitutional Court. So, when this body considers or interviews the candidates for ConCourt in April, this body will have an opportunity to decide whether it places before the President, for his decision, some white candidates to enable him to appoint one of both or fill one of both vacancies with some white judges.” Zondo is the fourth and last judge to be interviewed for the position of Chief Justice. JSC Interview | Acting Chief Justice Raymond Zondo: