As officials from the United States, Ukraine and Russia spoke at the United Nations Security Council on Thursday, demonstrators in support of Ukraine held up signs reading “Putin, Hands Off Ukraine” and “Stop Russian Aggression” across the street from the UN “Who believes Putin? You can’t believe Putin,” said Olga Kovalenko. “You can’t trust him. That’s why we’re here. We want the entire world to know the truth that Ukrainians don’t fight Ukrainians. It’s Russia who attacked Ukraine, and it’s Russia who started this war back in 2014. So, it’s already been eight years of this terrible war. More than 40 000 Ukrainians were killed or injured in this war. It’s just terrible.” “It’s difficult to believe anything Putin says,” said Michael Szpyhulsky. “Ukraine is the buffer to the rest of Europe and nations like Poland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, they’re shaking in their boots right now because they understand what the situation could evolve into. And it’s not a pretty thing.” “Putin’s been known to lie, so there’s no reason he wouldn’t be lying right now,” said Melania Wowk. “We should listen to the Ukrainian people and listen to their concerns about, ‘Hey, we don’t feel safe and we feel that he probably will attack.’ It’s important to listen to those who are being most affected.” Ukraine had asked the United Nations Security Council to discuss on Thursday a bid by Russia’s parliament to recognize self-proclaimed separatists in eastern Ukraine. The meeting comes amid high tensions after Russia massed more than 100 000 troops near Ukraine’s borders in recent weeks, though Russia denies planning an attack. Russian-backed separatists in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions – collectively known as the Donbass – broke away from Ukrainian government control in 2014 and proclaimed themselves independent, sparking a conflict with the Ukrainian army. The UN Security Council has met dozens of times to discuss the Ukraine crisis since Russia annexed Ukraine’s Crimea region in 2014. It cannot take any action because Russia is a veto-power along with France, Britain, China and the United States.