The Ekurhuleni Emergency and Disaster Management Services and police divers have mobilised more resources, including a helicopter,to continue with the search for an Uber driver and two missing passengers’ south of Pretoria. They reportedly drowned when the vehicle they were travelling in was swept away by flood waters at the Olifantspruit river bridge at Olifantsfontein on Saturday morning. The search was called off on Monday night due to safety concerns. Motorists have been warned to drive carefully as some roads in the area have been damaged by the floods. Ekurhuleni Metro councillor, Derek Tomson says the bridge is very low and notorious for flooding. “This road is very notorious and the problem is you don’t see most of the debris coming down the river and blocks the bridge. And you don’t see the water in time. Secondly, there’s no speed lights here. I have been down this road around 5h30 some morning when they’re struggling and I also don’t notice the water. I have to be very, very careful. So, motorists need to be made aware of that. It’s notorious for flooding, especially when they drive here at night because people do exceed the speed most of the time,” says Tomson.   Search launched for a mother and young child in Durban In a separate event, a search has been launched for a mother and her young child who have been away by the Mvoti River, north of Durban in Kwazulu-Natal. Lifeguards, a paramedic team, as well as a police search and rescue unit and police divers are taking part in the search. Witnesses have told the authorities that the mother was trying to cross the fast-flowing river with her baby tied to her back. Medi Response team spokesperson, Paul Herbst says, “Reports from the scene indicate that a mother, with her baby on her back, was crossing the flowing river, when they were both swept away. Witnesses to the incident managed to get to safety and to call for help. Rescue teams have deployed the Medi Response drone as well as search and rescue K9’s across the area. At this stage there have been no positive results and the search is ongoing.” Heavy rains causing havoc in some parts of KwaZulu-Natal:  