Judgment in the bail application of the alleged Parliament arsonist, Zandile Christmas Mafe, is expected to be handed down on Friday. Mafe took the stand at the Cape Town Regional Court on Saturday on charges ranging from arson to terrorism. He was arrested shortly after Parliament was set alight last month. He remains in custody at Pollsmoor Prison. The State in opposing bail has argued that the safety of public officials and institutions would be in danger if Mafe were to be released on bail. Parliament Fire | Unpacking latest developments in Zandile Mafe case: Nthabiseng Dubazana  Meanwhile, EFF leader Julius Malema says negligence was the main cause of the recent fire that gutted the National Assembly buildings at Parliament. He says Mafe’s arrest is being used as a scapegoat to divert attention from government’s negligence. “Do you think in your rightful mind, a person would burn Parliament and then goes and sleep next to where you have committed a crime… there’s no such thing. So I think more than anything guys, it’s negligence. They’ve not maintained Parliament, you may find out the rats have eaten the cables, that why it started burning from the roof and there was a spark and that spark caused the fire,” Malema says. Malema says negligence was the main cause of the fire:  AZAPO members call for the immediate release of Mafe Members of the Azanian People’s Organisation (AZAPO) who are demonstrating outside the High Court in Cape Town in support of Mafe have called for his immediate release. Azapo spokesperson Gaontebale Nodoba says, “You have seen citizens of South Africa, that they are clutching at straws. All of a sudden in a democratic South Africa the first person to be charged with terrorism-related acts is a black poor homeless person. What a shame to this so-called quasi democracy. How can it be that coming from Apartheid from 1994 we get into a so-called democracy and the first person to be charged with terrorism-related acts is a black poor person.” 