The man accused of killing seven of his family members has been denied bail at the Malamulele Magistrate’s Court in Limpopo. 53-year-old, Enoch Ndou, is facing seven charges of murder emanating from a shooting incident at Jim Jones village outside Malamulele in December last year. His case has been postponed to the 22nd of April for further investigations. The court stated that it is clear that the community of Jim Jones where Ndou allegedly shot and killed seven people is angry. The court further said Ndou’s release on bail would disturb peace in the community and he is also a danger to the public and himself. Spokesperson for the National Prosecution Authority in Limpopo, Mashudu Malabi-Dzhangi says Ndou failed to provide exceptional circumstances to be released on bail. “The court did not grant the bail and he said that Ndou failed to prove exceptional circumstances. This matter is coming back to court on the 22nd of April 2022 here in Malamulele Magistrate’s Court.” Ndou family’s Spokesperson, Thendo Mulaudzi says they feel safe because Ndou has been denied bail. “As the family, we are pleased with the outcome of the court because we’re also worried about our safety. Now, because he remains in state custody, is giving us a bit of assurance that at least we are still protected from him and we are hoping that the way that the proceeding has gone on, like the justice we see today, it will continue like that when we come to the actual case.” Ndou’s lawyer, Rabulanyana Matodzi says her client has accepted the outcome of the court and she will await further instructions from him. “After we have been denied bail, I consulted my client and at this stage, we welcome the decision that was taken by the court and we accept that the matter is being postponed for further investigations. I await further instructions from my client on what to do forward.” Ndou told the court that he will plead not guilty to all seven charges. Limpopo man accused of killing seven family member denied bail: 