A 34-year-old police officer is expected to appear in the Bafokeng Magistrates’ Court in Tlhabane, near Rustenburg in the North West tomorrow to face a corruption charge. The Provincial Anti-Corruption Investigation Unit arrested the suspect on Friday. Police say a vehicle allegedly used in a stock theft-related case was impounded to be used as evidence last month. The police official later allegedly called the suspect in the case offering to release the vehicle in exchange for money. Provincial police spokesperson Amanda Funani says, “He allegedly got a call from the police officer who promised to release his vehicle provided he pays a certain amount.  The man consequently reported the matter to the police who commenced with investigations.  The man allegedly arranged to meet with the police officer to hand him the money that he requested to release the vehicle. They ultimately met at the man’s house where the police officer was arrested after collecting the money which was found in his possession.” North West police officers charged of fraud granted bail They would then claim cash amounts and share them among themselves. The suspects were arrested by the Provincial Anti-Corruption Investigation Unit and National Intervention Unit after police picked up discrepancies in fuel transactions. North West Police Spokesperson, Colonel Amanda Funane says, “It was later established that some of the claims were processed while the vehicles were at the SAPS garage for repairs. Subsequent to these irregularities, investigations were conducted and led to the arrest of these members aged between 43 and 56.” Police say two petrol attendants, who were part of the scheme, were also arrested. They have since agreed to testify on behalf of the state. According to Funani, the suspects will be suspended in order for internal departmental investigations to be conducted. “A suspension will be considered by the management. There is a process that needs to be followed. After the process has been followed the management will make a decision of suspending them,” says Funani.