Gauteng Education MEC, Panyaza Lesufi says reports of GBV around Tembisa in Ekurhuleni are disheartening. A week ago an assistant nurse was shot and killed at the Tembisa hospital, allegedly by her police boyfriend. Monene has been laid to rest in her home village in Marulaneng outside Mokopane in Limpopo. Her alleged killer turned the gun on himself and is believed to be still in hospital. 36-year-old Monene was a nurse at the Tembisa hospital since 2016. Lesufi has been part of the walk and prayer session organised by Act Now Walk Against Gender-Based Violence and Femicide and National Liquor Traders. “Some of the activities that are happening are just going against the name of this township, Tembisa. (We) just hope that everyone can feel safe and protected, but recently we are seeing activities that are heartbreaking. The recent one of the nurse just took us to the lowest of lowest situation that we have ever experienced in this township. We are putting good programmes with police, community safety as well as our patrollers.” Family Spokesperson, September Majadibodu says the family is reeling in shock because a state firearm was allegedly used to kill Monene. He says they are also concerned that she was gunned down on government premises. Majadibodu says they are expecting an apology, particularly from the Police Department. “We are very sad about the situation. The family is not happy at all even now we are still waiting for the minister of police or anyone from the security side to come to account for that death. That death is a state death because the person who kill our daughter was a police he was using a state resources.” QUESTION OF THE DAY: Family of slain Tembisa nurse Lebogang Monene wants Government to take responsibility for her death. Your thoughts? with @Chriseldalewis #FullView #SABCNEWS pic.twitter.com/gPg3OEBiCT — SABC Full View (@SABCFullView) February 19, 2022  Family, friends and colleagues of slain Tembisa Hospital nurse Lebogang Monene bid her farewell: 