Two victims of the so-called ‘Masoyi Monster’ are yet to be buried. The Mpumalanga High Court found Julius Mndawe guilty on five counts of murder and defeating the ends of justice, last week. Mndawe killed and buried the women in his yard at the Masoyi Village near Hazyview, between 2018 and 2019. Two of the five victims’ families are still waiting for DNA results on their identity. Mandwe was found guilty of premeditated murder last week. He told the court that the murders were not premeditated but the Investigating Officer refuted this claim. The policeman testified that the manner in which the bodies were buried suggests the murders were premeditated. Serial killer Julius Mndawe found guilty of five counts of premeditated murder:  Mndawe was arrested in 2019 after he was found in possession of a victim’s cell-phone. The remains of the five women, aged between 15 and 24, were exhumed from Mndawe’s yard that same year. The two families who have not yet buried their loved ones say they will only find closure once they’ve laid them to rest. Spokesperson Moses Ndlovu says, “It seems that they will give him a proper sentence. However, we are saddened that we have not been given the bodies of the two victims. We would be happy if we could receive the bodies as soon as possible to bury them with dignity. We would not easily find peace because we even prepared for their funerals and wasting a lot of money after they were exhumed. Now, we have even lost hope that will be ever burry them.” Mpumalanga Police Spokesperson Selvy Mohlala says they have sought the help of a private laboratory to help speed up the DNA tests. Mohlala says, “Unfortunately, we had to do the retake, which we did. That particular process of taking the DNA samples, it was done on the 23rd of November last year. And we have forwarded them to the relevant authorities as it was discussed that we will get assistance from the private laboratory. So, we are awaiting the results. You would recall that the bodies were badly burnt and the other things that were the placed on, the cement and so on and so forth. So, hence we are requesting the assistance from the the private laboratories because from our side we couldn’t get anything that matches or that give us the direction in terms of that. So, another thing is the issue of the timelines. We can’t give you the specific date in terms of that because we are relying on those particular private service providers that we should have taken the samples to.” Chairperson of the South African Human Rights Commission in Mpumalanga, Eric Mokonyama says the commission is into the matter. “So much justice is being delayed and communities are deprived of their fundamental dignity. It’s just so unacceptable that families are made to wait for so long. And obviously,  (they) are even made to incur expenses out of waiting and waiting without any element of communication and certainty from government in terms of what the process is and when can we expect the results. As the commission, we are busy now with a project of consolidating all these matters across all provinces, so that we can consider our options in terms of engaging government to ensure that they speed up this process. If it means proceeding through litigation that is something that the commission will look into.” The National Prosecuting Authority pushed for a harsh sentence. State Prosecutor Zwelethu Mata says, “In case of crime, in particular the deterrent retributions of punishment, are preferred over those of prevention and rehabilitation, in which cases play a sub argument role. I submit with respect that the accused did not only murder the victims. But he took away the right for decent burial.” The Mpumalanga High Court Mndawe is set to hand down Julius Mndawe’s sentence on Thursday.