Democratic Alliance (DA) leader, John Steenhuisen has told President Cyril Ramaphosa that they will help him to fire his Cabinet if he can’t do it. Speaking on the first day of the Joint State of the Nation (SONA) Debate at the Cape Town City Hall on Monday, Steenhuisen announced that the DA had tabled a vote of no confidence motion in the cabinet. Today we table a Motion of No Confidence against the cabinet in terms of Section 102 of the Constitution. If it’s not possible for President Ramaphosa to hold his Executive accountable, then we’ll take that burden off his hands and let Parliament fire them. #SONAdebate pic.twitter.com/fTUOKoffaH — John Steenhuisen MP (@jsteenhuisen) February 14, 2022  He told the House that Ramaphosa had failed to take action against some Cabinet ministers who are failing in their duties. Steenhuisen says, “Accountability is something you only talk about, because actually doing something would mean firing some of your Cabinet and upsetting your comrades. So, here is what is going to happen Mr President, because you have shown that you are a president of talk and not a President of action, we are going to make it easier for you. “Today, I’ve tabled of motion of no confidence, not in you but in your whole cabinet in terms of  section 102 (1) of the constitution. If it’s not possible for you to do right by the people of South Africa, we are going to take the burden off your hands and let this House fire them for you,” he adds. VIDEO: Debate on SONA 2022: Unemployment Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader, Julius Malema says the unemployment rate in South Africa is the highest under Ramaphosa’s leadership. Malema told Ramaphosa that he has served his dream of becoming a President and it was time for him to go. He says, “Why are you not leaving us in peace because the highest ambition you ever had was to become a President. You have become a president. Now you want to come and serve for a second term. To do what? Because you are not doing anything. You are just on top but doing nothing on top. What became so-called new dawn, has become massive unemployment, increased violence against women and children, collapsing hospitals, and the greatest threats against the security of  the state in the post-democratic South Africa.” EFF leader Julius Malema responds to SONA: