Close to 1 000 families in the Eastern Cape have benefited from the Disaster Relief Emergency Fund (DREF) provided by the South African Red Cross Society (SARCS). The beneficiaries lost homes and their valuables during a storm that hit the area last month. Each household will receive a R2 000 voucher for two months. Red Cross Society Chief Executive Officer, Farnel Camphel says the operation will also target the designated group such as the homeless, child-headed households and people living with disabilities. About 2 000 families at the OR Tambo District, Chris Hani, Amathole and the Alfred Nzo lost their belongings due to storm that hit the Eastern Cape. Severe hail storm hit Eastern Cape:  Some households received temporary shelters, food parcels and water but to these families that was not enough. The SARCS intervened with further assistance of cash vouchers saying they are planning to further assist the communities to prevent damages of this nature. Red Cross CEO Farnel Camphel says, “From outside, we just came with a different support. The norm would be food parcels, but it does not stimulate the local economy. So, instead of just providing food parcels, let’s invest in cash voucher system to give people dignity and power. If you have money, you are able to support your own needs and create some sort of dependency.” Beneficiaries Nontembiso Rhanuka and Sphiwo Magwala say the voucher will make a huge difference but they still need more help. Rhanuka says, “I am very happy it’s like I have received it. After the disaster, we were devastated, we didn’t know how we were going to live. It got better after getting shelters, but we still ask for more help. We are happy. We received money vouchers. They are going to make a huge difference.” Sphiwo Magwala says, “We wait for help which comes after a long delay. There is a lot of damage and this money will not fix everything, but it will make a change. It might be small but it is better than nothing.” Ruth Van Rooyen from the International Federation Red Cross Society says the humanitarian organisation has plans in place to prevent recurring disasters. “When it comes to communities on a drive here, it looks like an area that needs trees. This is a discussion that we had. As a federation, one of our initiatives is tree planting.” The beneficiaries have received text messages alerting them of their cash vouchers.