New members of the African Union Peace and Security Council will be appointed as some parts of Africa battle with a wave of coups. On Saturday, newly appointed AU chair and Senegalese President Macky Sall told his counterparts that the re-emergence of coups in Africa constitutes a major attack on democracy and institutional stability in the continent. The AU Commission Chair Moussa Faki Mahamat denounced the recent coups in West Africa, while Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed nailed his colours to the mast, saying he is committed to end the conflict in the Tigray region. VIDEO: AU Summit update with Coletta Wanjohi: Second day Sunday is the second day of the African Union heads of state and government annual summit which is being held virtually. The AU’s decision to grant Israeli diplomats observer status will come under the spotlight. South Africa and Algeria presented the motion questioning the AU’s decision to grant Israel an observer status within the AU ranks. The move has divided the continental body as most African nations support the Palestinian cause. President Cyril Ramaphosa is expected to brief the summit on Africa’s plan to fight climate change. VIDEO: UN SG António Guterres addresses the 35th Ordinary Session: The African Peer Review Forum On Friday, while presenting the opening remarks  as the Chairperson of the African Peer Review Forum, Ramaphosa said the Africa Governance Report 2021 is ready and will be presented to the 35th Ordinary Session of the Assembly of Heads of State and Government of the AU. He says, “Our collective thanks go to the APRM Continental Secretariat and the other institutions of the African Governance Architecture Platform for developing and submitting this important report. I also wish to thank all who have played such an important role in steering the APRM processes during this time.” “Our thanks goes to the Minister of Public Service and Administration of the Republic of South Africa, to the APR Panel of Eminent Persons led by Ambassador Ombeni Sefue; to the Chief Executive Officer of the APRM Continental Secretariat Prof. Eddy Maloka and his team; as well as to our strategic partners,” he added.