The  Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) promises to be a springboard that will bring economic emancipation to the rest of the African continent. This is according to the party leader, Julius Malema, who addressed supporters at the Hector Petersen Memorial in Soweto, on Friday, at the launch of the party’s one million membership campaign which is aimed at growing the party’s numbers. Scores of EFF members congregated in Soweto to launch a program that will intensify the party’s recruitment drive and grow the party’s membership to a million and over. Currently, the party boasts over 600 000 members. Malema urges members to get to work Leader Julius Malema has urged members to get to work. “Comrades, we should know that today we are here to launch a campaign for one million. All of us, whether you are working or not working, every Friday you must wear red because every weekend is a day of recruiting members of the EFF. If you are working, wear red, if you are going to a club rock a nice red. Do not go to a club with an EFF t-shirt utlare bora,” says Malema. Malema devoted much of his address to the issue of foreign nationals, urging South Africans to unite with their fellow Africans to bring about the continent’s economic transformation. We are going to start the Economic Transformation of Africa “We are going to start the Economic Transformation of Africa here in Southern Africa. We are going to lead the whole continent to claim its minerals. When history is taught in future, when historical account is given, they will say there was a fearless generation in the South of Africa that claimed the mines and the land and all over Africa. They united to reclaim the land and the minerals.  We are not starting a small thing here. That is why the enemy is shaken,” says Malema South Africans need to stand with the Russian Malema says that South Africans need to stand with the Russians. This amidst fears that Russia will invade Ukraine, Malema said it is important to understand what contribution certain countries have made to South Africa’s liberation. Hostilities are high between Russia and America and its NATO allies over the status of the Ukraine. “Russia gave us weapons, gave us food, trained the soldiers of Umkhonto we Sizwe and made sure that when they come back to South Africa, they must fight the apartheid regime equipped. Those are the people who were there with us. China was accommodating the APLA forces  giving them the arms, making sure they are well equipped to fight for the liberation of South Africa. Today out of excitement, when they say America is fighting with Russia, because you don’t even know where Russia is and you have seen America on the movie automatically you are America,” says Malema. The party will soon introduce an induction membership workshop for its new recruits. For more see video link below: 