Congress of South African Trade Unions (Cosatu) has expressed disappointment and shock at President Cyril Ramaphosa’s State of the Nation Address where the president expressly said that it was government’s task to create the conditions for private enterprise to grow and create jobs. The trade union federation says government is shifting its responsibility of creating jobs to the private sector. The federation says this has not happened since the dawn of democracy. The sentiments by the trade union emerged during COSATU’s sixth provincial elective congress held this week in Potchefstroom, in the North West. Cosatu’s First Deputy President, Mike Shingange, believes the President surrendered the possibility of the state intervening in building the economy. “For very long time we have always known that this is a government that’s supposed to intervene, that suppose to strengthen state-owned institutions. For him to declare for the very first time since 27 years of democracy by a state President that says that they have no business in creating jobs, in fact, the private sector is the only one that must create jobs. we find that thing very disappointing. In fact, it overshadows some of the things that we thought were good speeches by the president,” says Shingange. SONA 2022 |  Political parties react to President Cyril Ramaphosa speech COSATU’s 6th Provincial Congress calls for the ANC to deal with ill-disciplined members Factionalism, patronage and ill-discipline within the African National Congress (ANC) dominated speeches by various speakers at Cosatu’s 6th Provincial Congress at Potchefstroom in the North West. The elective congress  also reflected on the current state of affairs within politics and governance in the province. During his opening address, Cosatu’s provincial Chairperson, Solly Lekhu, called on the ANC Interim Provincial Committee (IPC) to act decisively on members who are ill-disciplined. “The ANC in the province is characterised by a high level of ill-discipline. We have seen some leaders considering themselves popular. They are in a competition to outdo and outshine others. The IPC in the province is not helping the situation. They have been left wanting when they must mute out discipline on rogue members. The IPC must act and must act without fear or favour,” says Lekhu. South African Communist Party  (SACP) Provincial Secretary, Madoda Sambatha, echoed the same sentiments “North West is a highly factionalised province. Factionalism rules in North West. Money and patronage are the daily activities into convincing people who to vote for.  So if you dream of leading, the first thing that you must do is not forming a branch, find money for you to buy the branch – that is the ANC of today,” says Sambatha.