Hundreds of mourners, mainly nurses, paid their last respects to a colleague who was killed in a suspected gender-based violence incident. The family says Lebogang Monene was shot at Tembisa Hospital by her ex-boyfriend earlier this month, a few weeks after the two had separated. Family Spokesperson September Majadibodu says they are shocked because a state firearm was allegedly used to kill Monene. He says they are also concerned that she was gunned down inside government premises. Majadibodu says they are expecting an apology, particularly from the police ministry. “We are very sad about the situation. The family is not happy at all even now we are still waiting for the Minister of Police or anyone from the security side to come to account for that death. It is a state death because the person who kill our daughter was a policeman, he was using state resources,” says Majadibodu. Family, friends and colleagues of slain Tembisa Hospital nurse Lebogang Monene bid her farewell  The Chief Executive Officer of Tembisa Hospital, Dr Ashley Mthunzi, addressed the mourners. “My legacy, Lebogang Monene, my legacy will be entrenched for generations to come. Tembisa Hospital staff, I have to console (you). It is not easy, but what are we learning from this is that it is important for us to share whatever is troubling (us). If you have a problem in your relationship share with us, so that we can see what we can actually do,” says Mthunzi. The Democratic Nursing Organisation of South Africa (Denosa) Chairperson in Gauteng, Simphiwe Gada, says they will seek answers on Monene’s killing from the Minister of Police. “Denosa will be embarking on a march to the Police Commissioner in Gauteng. We will also be taking the fight to Bheki Cele to say that nurses’ lives matter, healthcare workers’ lives matter. Healthcare workers have the right to refuse to work in an unsafe enrolment,” says Gada. Monene’s friend, Lindiwe Dlami says the manner in which she died has shocked her. “Today, indeed is a sad day for me. I lost a friend. I really don’t have much to say. I just want to say condolences to the family,” says Dlami. Monene was a nurse at Tembisa Hospital from 2016. Tembisa nurse allegedly killed by her ex-boyfriend being laid to rest in Limpopo  