Many areas have been flooded following heavy rains in Gauteng. In the south of Pretoria, the Glen road bridge in Olifantsfontein has been re-opened for traffic. It was closed after two vehicles were swept away by flood waters in the early hours of Saturday morning. Four people were rescued after their car was swept into the flooded river. Police divers and Ekurhuleni Emergency Services are also still searching for three people, two of them Botswana nationals after an Uber taxi was swept away. The trio reportedly drowned when an Uber driver attempted to cross the flooded Olifantspruit River Bridge. Search continues for three flood victims in Gauteng:  Ekurhuleni Emergency Services Spokesperson, William Ntladi, was at the scene. “We, as the emergency, have been here to support the search and rescue team. They’ve moved from the Irene side where the incident happened to start the search this side. So, we are working with other stakeholders like parks to clear the road. So, it’s now clear for traffic and we will wait for report on the search from Irene,” says William Ntladi. The families of the three were waiting by the riverside as divers continued with the search. Tshegofatso Mokhonwana says they last heard from her uncle around midnight when he called to inform them his Uber vehicle was being swept away by the flood water. “The last time we heard from him was just after midnight and they’re searching for them. We’re devastated but we are still waiting. They’re still searching,” says Mokhonwana. Ekurhuleni Metro councillor, Dereck Thompson is at the scene to assess the situation. “The police divers have gone down the river and as they go further down maybe we can find the bodies. So, the river has subsided substantially. And hopefully, we might find the bodies soon. It’s a very tragic situation here. So, they’ve indicated they’ve found the second vehicle already,” says Dereck Thompson. Heavy downpours have left several businesses and residential areas flooded in and around Tshwane and Ekurhuleni in Gauteng since Friday night. Roads and bridges have been washed away. Scores of families in informal settlements in Mamelodi and parts of Ekurhuleni have been left homeless and are in need of urgent assistance. VIDEO: Tshwane Emergency Services warn motorists against crossing flooded bridges 