The bail application of a 52-year-old man who allegedly killed seven of his family members on Christmas Day last year is expected to resume at the local Magistrate’s Court on Friday. Enoch Ndou allegedly shot and killed his two nephews, the wife of one of them and the couple’s four children at Jimmy Jones village outside Malamulele in Limpopo. The case was postponed last week to this morning after Ndou’s legal representative requested time to familiarise herself with the case. It is believed that the Christmas Day shooting followed a family dispute over the ownership of the family home. During Ndou’s last appearance, the families of the deceased and some community members raised concerns over the Malamulele Magistrate’s Court’s capacity to hear the case. This after a limited number of people were allowed into the court gallery, with the court citing COVID-19 regulations. Video | Enoch Ndou’s bail application postponed to 4th of February:  “I thought it was firecrackers” A neighbour of the seven family members says he thought someone was setting off firecrackers when the shooting happened. Neighbour Phineas Hlungwani says he did not bother to investigate as he thought firecrackers were being set off to celebrate Christmas Day. Hlungwani says he only realised the seriousness of the incident when police went to the scene. “The Ndou’s are my neighbours. I got frightened from the time I heard the sound. At first, I thought the sound was from firecrackers not thinking was from a firearm. I only learnt about the death shortly before 1am when he came and told me there is a bad person by our gate. I was so scared that I couldn’t go out until the police arrived. I am still shaken because these children from the Ndou regard me as their father figure because I grew together with the late father.” Sombre start to the new year According to police, the Christmas shooting happened just after midnight. The suspect later handed himself to the police in Thohoyandou. Family members and the community were left reeling after the news of the murder. The new year marked a sombre start for the family and friends of the murdered family members as they buried their loved ones on New Year’s Day. Family Spokesperson Thendo Mulaudzi says they want the law to take its course. The video below is reporting on the family’s mass burial:  -Additional reporting by Rudzani Tshivase