Diversity expert, Asanda Ngoasheng says government has failed to prevent incidents such as the ones unfolding at Hoërskool Jan Viljoen in Randfontein, west of Johannesburg. Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi is expected to meet with parents at the school on Tuesday following allegations of racism. It’s believed a violent altercation between black and white learners broke out at the school last Friday. On Monday, police fired rubber bullets to disperse angry parents who had charged at officers’ cars and the school gates after accusing the provincial Education Department of not dealing with their complaints. Allegations of sexual misconduct, which Lesufi has described as disturbing, have also been levelled against one of the teachers. The department says it will ask the South African Human Rights Commission to investigate the complaints. Ngoasheng says government needs clear policies against on at schools. “When you don’t have, as a Department of Basic Education, a policy that is very clear that sets out what is supposed to happen when there are such incidents. Who is supposed to be called? Who the incident is supposed to be reported to? Then you see everybody running around saying they don’t know what to do. The private security that was hired by the school turned on the learners and then when the police came they started shooting rubber bullets at the kids and you’re asking yourself why are people being criminalised for fighting for their rights?” Police fire rubber bullets at protesting parents outside Hoerskool Jan Viljoen: Lesufi is expected to meet with parents at Hoërskool Jan Viljoen in Randfontein, west of Johannesburg on Tuesday. On Monday, police fired rubber bullets to disperse angry parents who had charged at officers’ cars and the school gates after accusing the provincial Education Department of not dealing with their complaints. Addressing parents outside the school gate, he said, “I want to plead with you, let us not teach our children violence. I want to assure you [that] this matter is receiving our immediate attention. There is no one who will hide it, postpone it or disguise it. We are dealing with racism, that’s it nothing else but racism.” The department says it will ask the South African Human Rights Commission to investigate the complaints. Parents protest outside Hoerskool Jan Viljoen: