The family of the late ANC branch secretary in ward 82 at Umlazi south of Durban believes his killing is politically motivated. Thulani Shusha was gunned down on Saturday night near his home at W. Section at Umlazi. The uncle of the deceased, Themba Mkhize believed the incident took place while Shusha was returning from a branch meeting. The murder of Shusha has left the community of ward 82 shocked and afraid. According to reports, Shusha and eight members of the branch committee were returning from a branch meeting when the incident occurred. Shusha and one person died on the scene. Four politicians have been killed in KwaZulu-Natal since the beginning of this year, including two councillors. Shusha’s uncle, Themba Mkhize describes the deceased as a person who was down to earth and politically active. “I am devastated with the death of Thulani as he liked ANC in such a way that sometimes he couldn’t attend family meetings. It is painful today he is no more. But he liked ANC.” Mkhize did not mince his words and insists that the plot to kill Shusha was hatched within the ANC. “I have no doubt about that. People who killed Shusha are from the ANC. Unfortunately, they know why did they do that. But at the end of the day, the truth will come out and it needs to be thoroughly investigated to get to the bottom of the matter.” Local ANC member, Sthenjwa Nyawose shares the same sentiments with Mkhize adding that the movement of the deceased was monitored by the killers. “This is the first time that the incident of this nature to occur in this ward. We will work with the community at large and this case must be taken by political law enforcement agencies. We believe the killers were following them. We believe they were monitoring them and they had a plot to assassinate them.” Shusha’s neighbour, Richard Busani says Shusha was prioritising the interests of the community. “He was very important to the community and he played a very important role in the lives of the people. He was a jack of all trades and he was the answer to the challenges of the community.” Meanwhile, SAPS Spokesperson, Nqobile Gwala says police are investigating two charges of murder. “Charges of murder are being investigated by Umlazi SAPS following an incident that took place where a 51-year-old man was standing on Baker Road with other males coming from a meeting when four males approached them. The said males suddenly opened fire at the people standing unfortunately a 51-year-old man and another 35-year-old man sustained multiple gunshot wounds to the body others managed to flee the scene and both victims were declared dead at the scene the motive for the killing is yet to be established as investigations continue.” Call for political parties to help end political killings in KwaZulu-Natal: 