The Justice Department says it has taken note of what it terms “deliberate distortion” of the process to appoint acting judges to the Constitutional Court. This follows the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) complaint over the process of appointing the Acting Judge of the Constitutional Court, which it says sought to have Judge Dunstan Mlambo in the position. The EFF says it found it shocking that Minister Ronald Lamola tried to influence the appointment of acting judges to the Constitutional Court. [MUST WATCH] CIC @Julius_S_Malema reveals the shocking correspondence from the Minister Lamola asking the Acting Chief Justice Zondo to disregard set candidates for the role of acting as Justices in the ConCourt, in favour of his own candidates #CICInterviewsJudges pic.twitter.com/PhAHsvFzql — Economic Freedom Fighters (@EFFSouthAfrica) February 4, 2022  On Friday, during the  interview, Acting Chief Justice Raymond Zondo and Lamola revealed that there was some exchange of letters and phone calls, which the EFF described as an attempt to influence the process to get Mlambo to act in the court. But departmental spokesperson, Chrispin Phiri says the EFF is spreading disinformation. “The Ministry of Justice has noted what appears to be a deliberate distortion of the appointment process of acting judges of the Constitutional Court. The insinuation that the minister sort to enhance the appointment ability of a certain candidate, by suggesting that, the candidate be appointed to act in a vacancy in the Constitutional Court is designed to undermine confidence in the Judiciary.” Justice Ministry clarifies process of the appointment of acting judges  JSC recommends Maya as next Chief Justice The Judicial Service Commission (JSC) has recommended Supreme Court Justice Mandisa Maya as the next Chief Justice. This was just announced in a short statement by Commissioner Dali Mpofu, during a media briefing, which happened 5 hours later than the initially stated time(1pm). The deliberation started at 9am on Saturday morning, following marathon interviews with the four judges tipped for the position. During her interview by the Judicial Services Commission (JSC) for the position of the country’s top judge, Justice Maya called for government to give women and black lawyers the experience required to become top judges. She reflected on the under-representation of women at all levels of the judiciary and says the quality of future judges is dependent on giving them exposure currently. “We must not stop doing the things we have been doing. In the meantime, agitating for women to get quality work in the professions by the state attorney, that can never be overstated. Government must give black lawyers and women lawyers quality work so that we have a pool when we look for judges and we have people who are ready, who have been exposed to niche areas  like commercial law – when they go to the bench and we do not get these comments these painful comments that the quality of judgments is being eroded,” she adds. JSC Interview | Justice Mandisa Maya: 