Democratic Alliance (DA) member of Parliament (MP) Leon Schreiber has told President Cyril Ramaphosa that he has failed to acknowledge to the Zondo Commission of Inquiry that the ANC’s cadre deployment committee enabled State Capture. Schreiber was participating in the debate on Ramaphosa’s State of the Nation Address. It is the second day of the Joint SONA Debated currently underway at the City Hall in Cape Town. Ramaphosa will reply to the two-day debate on Wednesday. Schreiber says cadre deployment was the foundation of State Capture. “Where was your courage when you said you will rather fall on your sword than reveal how tax money is used to fund ANC Campaigns. Where was your courage when you testified before the State Capture Commission. Instead of doing the courageous thing by acknowledging before Judge Zondo that the Cadre Deployment Committee that you chaired between 2013 and 2018 enables state capture. You tried to convince him that committee is innocent. Now thanks to the DA’s work in exposing the minutes of the Cadre deployment Committee. We now know that this is not true.” Divide and rule Meanwhile, Mineral Resources and Energy Minister Gwede Mantashe accused the DA of playing the divide and rule game in the SONA Debate. “Now iDA took us to divide and rule 101 yesterday, that in the main it should be the President. Mr Steenhuisen repeated there is no two President’s. Ukhuti President goWabo (the President is theirs), the ANC is not theirs. Now when you get racism emboldened it calls on us as revolutionaries to recollect our energy and appreciate that we are swimming against history.” Day 2 of SONA Debate is currently under way in the video below:  Fierce criticism On Monday Ramaphosa’s SONA came under fierce criticism from opposition parties. His speech was put under the spotlight for his stance on job creation, State-own Entities, the appointment of a Chief Justice and the high unemployment faced by Black women in South Africa. During the debate the DA also announced that it will table a no-confident motion in the entire Cabinet. SONA Debate I MPs respond to Ramaphosa’s SONA: Sandile Swana