The sentencing of the convicted ‘Masoyi monster’ Julius Mndawe has been postponed to Thursday at the High Court in Mbombela. The convicted serial killer was found guilty of the premeditated murder of Banele Khoza (15), Noxolo Mdluli (17), Tokie Tlaka (24), Nomthandazo Mdluli (19) and Felicia Ndlovu (17), in Numbi village near Hazyview. He killed and buried the women between 2018 and 2019. Mndawe was arrested in 2019 after one of the victims’ cellphones was found in his possession. His lawyer, Ellana Erasmus, in mitigation of sentence told the court that Mndawe was remorseful and had pleaded guilty to the charges. The State Prosecutor, Zwelethu Mata says Mndawe is not remorseful because he did not voluntarily report the murder incidents to the police. Mata says Mndawe was found guilty of serious cases and therefore should be sentenced to life imprisonment. He also urged the court to take into consideration that violence against women is rife in many communities. REPORT: Mndawe confessed to killing and raping some of five women
<span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> Meanwhile, some family members could not hold back their tears as Mata read the victim impact report. Family members of the victims are happy with the court outcome and are calling on the court to give Mndawe a sentence that will send a clear message to other murderers. They say they will not accept his apology. “We don’t accept his apology. We won’t be able to forgive him for now because we are very hurt and we have lost our loved ones. We are still pained even now,” added some family members. Mndawe’s family says he should apologise to the families of the women he has admitted to killing. His father, Frank Mndawe, says the family is still in shock. “We were shocked when we heard about the alleged incident. We are still saddened by his actions. We had hoped as a family that we would also receive counselling. We do not know anything about what he did because he lived in his own house, not with us. They burned down his house and we accept that because what he did was wrong.” Mndawe will know his fate on Thursday. Mndawe found guilty of murder:
<span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span>