Eastern Cape Premier Oscar Mabuyane says his administration is working tirelessly to address poverty, unemployment and inequality in the province. Delivering his third State of the Province Address, Mabuyane said plans were afoot to attract more investors to the province to create job opportunities. The Eastern Cape has the highest unemployment rate in the country at 47 percent. Mabuyane says his administration is also investing in improving road infrastructure as part of growing the economy. “In our plan we said, to address these three challenges, we must: • Build a capable, ethical, and developmental state • Transform the economy and create jobs • Invest in Education, Skills and Health • Consolidate the social wage through reliable and quality basic services • Integrate spatial planning, rural economy, and local government • Build social cohesion and safe communities and lastly • Build a better Africa and the World.” Political analyst, Ongama Mtimka says Mabuyane’s speech was silent on many matters affecting the province. Mtimka says, “He did try on the financial aspect and transparency to talk about the state of accountability but that’s not enough…education, beyond quantitative numbers at the end of the year how much are we assuring that we got. Quality education, it’s silent on that and that is by design. This is the politician’s speech and the completeness of it is only when the debate comes and the Premier is challenged to answer questions.” Our focus is on giving support to small businesses, expanding investment in agriculture, improving government performance, fighting fraud and corruption. Listen on the 23rd Feb 2021 #easterncape #oscarmabuyane pic.twitter.com/N9HSFMHs98 — Premier Lubabalo Oscar Mabuyane (@OscarMabuyane) February 18, 2021  6 days to go ….. #SOPA2021 pic.twitter.com/cc3o1mhxQs — Premier Lubabalo Oscar Mabuyane (@OscarMabuyane) February 16, 2021  <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span>