African and Western leaders met in Paris on Wednesday night to start fleshing out plans for how to continue fighting militants in the Sahel region once France and its European partners begin pulling out of Mali. Four European diplomatic sources told Reuters that an announcement on the withdrawal of France’s Barkhane operation and European Takuba special forces from Mali would be made ahead of a European Union-Africa summit in Brussels on Thursday. The decision follows a deterioration in French relations with Mali after its military junta reneged on a deal to organize elections in February, proposing to hold power until 2025. Mali has also accepted a deployment of Russian private military contractors, dismaying some European countries who say they are incompatible with their mission. French President Emmanuel Macron, host of Wednesday’s gathering, will hold a news conference on Thursday. Successive coups in Mali, Chad and Burkina Faso – all ex-French colonies – have weakened France’s West African alliances, emboldened militants who control large swathes of territory and opened the door for Russia to fill the vacuum. Diplomats warn that spiralling violence could give fresh impetus to migration from West Africa to Europe. It also threatens international mining operations and stability in strategic French partners like Ivory Coast and Senegal. A draft document seen by Reuters, distributed to countries involved in Mali, says that France and its Takuba partners had ” decided to commence the coordinated withdrawal of their military resources from Malian territory”. French military sources said a drawdown from Mali would take several months and give time to refine security plans for the rest of the Sahel region. France began reducing troops in the Sahel last year and closing bases in northern Mali. It retains about 4 300 soldier sin the region, including 2 400-2500 in Mali. The Takuba special forces mission has about 600-900 troops, of whom 40% are French and include medical and logistical teams, with the rest comprising about a dozen EU countries including Italy and Estonia. Few diplomats believe the mission can survive an exit from Mali but Paris hopes to convince its allies to support countries in the Gulf of Guinea, notably Ivory Coast, Togo, Benin and Ghana, where there are concerns militancy is spreading due to porous borders. Their leaders will be in Paris on Wednesday. “The departure of Barkhane and Takuba creates a vacuum, “Ivorian President Alassane Ouattara told France 24 ahead of the dinner of about regional and international leaders. “We will be forced to increase our defence forces and increase the protection of our borders.” France is also banking on being able to transfer troops to Niger, which operationally would enable Paris to continue hunting down militants in the critical border zones between Mali, Niger and Burkina Faso. Niger already hosts French, American, German and Italian forces in the capital Niamey. “In view of our last conversations with the Nigerian authorities, Niger is ready to welcome European elements,” a French presidency official told reporters. A key question still to be answered will be the futures of the 14 000-strong UN peacekeeping mission (MINUSMA) and the European Union’s EUTM (European Union Training Mission) and EUCAP missions. Their fates are in doubt given French forces provide medical, aerial and emergency reinforcement support.