Acting Chief Justice, Raymond Zondo has been grilled on whether he had brought the judiciary into disrepute by meeting with ANC leader Jacob Zuma in 2008 over Julius Malema’s “Kill for Zuma” comments. Malema made the utterances when he was still President of the ANC Youth League ahead of the ANC’s National Conference held in Polokwane. In questioning Zondo, Malema said the meeting was unethical for a judge and the Acting Chief Justice had failed to publicly disclose the relationship he had with the former President. Jacob Zuma, Zondo in his defence said he acted as a private citizen to avoid bloodshed. “I indicated that I was concerned about it as a citizen. I was concerned it would end up with violence. I thought he should have spoken to you. He listened to me and I give him credit. He understood but my recollection is that he said he had not spoken to you in public but he hadspoken to you in private. But I was concerned about the possibility of violcence,” says Zondo. Malema says he knew that was the case and that he views such a meeting as “political interference by a judge.” “Because that was a statement made in a political rally and you left and went to meet with President Zuma to discuss my political position as a judge and proceeded to in matters where the organisation I lead … and I looked at you … the organisation I lead came to ligitate against President Zuma and you never indicated to court that you knew President Zuma like that to a point where you can even discuss political issues with him. On two cases you brought before the Constitutional Court, you said there, never declared like everybody declares.” Malema also pressed Zondo about the content of two meetings Zondo has admitted he had with Zuma before he was president. Zondo says he cannot remember what was discussed in those meetings with Zuma – something that Malema says is of great concern. “So you remember that you met him between this and that in a hotel, in Durban twice. I accept that Zuma is not Mandela, but when you come from KZN, Zuma is the Mandela of KZN. That’s why you even speak about the role he played in dealing with violence in KKZN. There is no way you can be called by President Zuma, twice in a hotel … you remember the years, you remember that it was in a hotel, you remember he was not in government, but you don’t remember what you were discussing with President Zuma at that time. I know (what you discussed), but there is a rule that you don’t raise issues that we didn’t raise with you before, but on your own volition, please ACJ, take the country into confidence. President Zuma asked to see you twice in a hotel and you agree to meet him and you remember all of those details. The only detail, in two meeting you have had with him, you don’t remember is why president Zuma wanted to meet you.” Zondo has insisted he can’t remember. “Well, I certainly don’t remember, Mr Malema.” Malema says is concerning that Acting Chief Justice Zondo can “easily decent into the political arena” raising the meetings with Zuma, later with Ramaphosa and the recent press conference he held in response to an opinion piece penned by ANC member and Tourism Minister, Lindiwe Sisulu. Zondo’s interview erupted into chaos late on Friday evening when JSC Commissioner Malema and Justice Minister Ronald Lamola engaged in a shouting match. At issue was whether it was right for Lamola to suggest to Zondo that Gauteng Judge President be allowed to act as a judge in the constitutional court. Malema asserted that Lamola had done this in an effort to privilege Mlambo in the Chief Justice interviews, a claim Lamola strongly rejected. “CJ Moegeng Moegeng writes to them, they don’t respond. They wait for him to go. Now, they know that the CJ is gone, you are now acting, we are going to look for ACJ, then they start responding to Moegeng Moegeng’s letter during your time,” said Malema “No, no, no, Acting Chairperson that is a lie. It’s a blue lie what Commissioner Malema is saying,” interjected Lamola, much to the ire of Malema. “No, but don’t say I am lying. What do you mean I am lying. Don’t say I am lying. That is disrespectful. If you are going to allow him to say I am lying it’s wrong. I am on a platform here and I am not going to be called a liar.” Lamola later withdrew the comment that Malema was “lying.” – additional reporting by Sipho Kekana JSC Interview | Acting Chief Justice Raymond Zondo Part 2: