The Free State African National Congress (ANC) Interim Provincial Committee convener, Mxolisi Dukwana says they are committed to bringing stability and quality members in all structures of the party. Dukwana, speaking at the ANC Mangaung region 110th party anniversary in Botshabelo, said the party is ready to have its permanent structures to bring unity within the party. ANC branches in the Mangaung region are calling for unity as they celebrate the party’s 110 anniversary. Members say the high unemployment rate and poor service delivery are the biggest enemies that should be addressed. They appealed to the leadership in the province to implement the call by President Cyril Ramaphosa to tackle burning issues within the society. “We still have the bucket system at Mamiki Motloi branch. So we want some ANC members to lead the ANC to improve the life of our people.” “We want to see those people who are supposed to take care of us. They must do so because now we are dying almost each and every day.” “The only thing that I have realised in Mangaung is unemployment. Now our young people – they went to school then went to university then they are unemployed.” Dukwana says the party should self-correct and deal with the divisions amongst the organization. Dukwana says they are optimistic about rebuilding the organisation and unity within its members and structures. He says they are wiser and know how to build a vibrant and responsible organisation. Dukwana commits that the renewal of the ANC should start at its birthplace in Bloemfontein. “The rebirth, the renewal and rebuilding of the ANC is going to start again in the Free State because it’s our commitment that since 2000, when the then secretary-general Kgalema Motlanthe indicated that the ANC in the Free State it was mortgaged. And we believe that we did not apply ourselves correctly at the time. Otherwise, we would have avoided many other challenges that followed after.” The ANC says the interests of the citizens of the Free State will be prioritised. LGE 2021 | ANC in Free State denies divisions within its Interim Provincial Committee: 