The African National Congress (ANC) in Limpopo says it will hold the party’s 10th provincial elective conference in the first week of June. Spokesperson, Donald Selamolela, says the date of the conference was discussed during the Provincial Executive Committee’s (PEC) special council meeting earlier this week. The term of office of the current provincial executive committee will come to an end in June. ANC spokesperson in Limpopo, Donald Selamolela, says preparations for the 10th provincial elective conference have started. He says various task teams have been established to ensure a successful conference. “The special council, PEC meeting, also considered the roadmap towards our provincial conference. As you may be aware, the end of June this year will mark the end of the term of our PEC that came into office in 2018 around June. We have set our date for the conference, which is the first week of June this year. The cut-of date for membership was on the 31st of January, the regions are supposed to consult the branches on the roadmap.” Some ANC members have started to circulate the names of their preferred candidates. Selamolela says people have a right to express their views, but the process to nominate candidates will only open on 15 February. “People can express their views at any time, at any point, anywhere. We are a democratic organisation. So, people are free to raise their views from time to time, but what is important is that this is the matter that is absolutely a right of the branches. So, when the branches and branches membership convene from the 15th, they will be making such determination.” The province has endorsed President Cyril Ramaphosa for a second term: The regional elective conference in the Waterberg region will be held in the second week of March. Waterberg is the only region that has not yet convened a regional elective conference. The other four regions in the province have already held their regional elective conferences and elected new leadership.