Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) Secretary-General Marshall Dlamini has lamented AfriForum’s court action against the party, labelling the lobby group racist. Dlamini adds that the party’s conduct will not be dictated by AfriForum. This as party leader Julius Malema is expected to appear and give testimony in the Johannesburg High Court on Wednesday morning. [HAPPENING NOW]: CIC @Julius_S_Malema is appearing at the Equality Court in the case against Afriforum. The court is sitting at the Equality Court to hear the racist Afriforum’s complaint that the struggle song “Dubul’ ibhunu” constitutes hate speech. #EFFvsAfriforum pic.twitter.com/jaUUr4booi — Economic Freedom Fighters (@EFFSouthAfrica) February 16, 2022  The court is hearing the matter between AfriForum and the EFF regarding the singing of the “Kill the Boer” song. The lobby group is asking the court to declare that the singing of the song “Dubula iBhunu” or “Kill the Boer” by the EFF, Malema and party MP Mbuyiseni Ndlozi as hate speech. It is also calling on the court to impose a sanction and a fine. AfriForum is asking the court to refer the matter to the NPA for prosecution on a contempt of court charge. Dlamini says the singing of the song is part of the country’s heritage. “There is no racist in this country who is going to dictate to us how we should conduct ourselves, how we should deal with the politics of this country, how we should sing our struggle songs, how we should do our own slogans and no racist is going to erase our history.” “All the songs that we are singing, the slogans that we are using when we are doing our political work, it is ours, it belongs to us, it is our heritage of this country. That is what our forefathers, those that fought for the land of this country, they used to sing. There is no racist who is going to tell us and even a court, there is no court that is going to tell us how we should conduct ourselves,” says Dlamini. Dlamini speaks to the SABC about the case:  Below is the live stream for Wednesday’s proceedings: 