Justice Minister Ronald Lamola says that government has already started taking action against those involved in State Capture, following the release of the report by Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo. Lamola was speaking following the State of The Nation Address (SONA), in which president Ramaphosa promised better protection for whistleblowers. Lamola says that intimidation of whistleblowers is of great concern to the government. “It affects the work of the law enforcement agencies, and it’s through the whistleblowers that the law enforcement agencies are able to uncover things that would otherwise have never been known. So, it is important that we anchor the very legislation that will respond to this. And already, you’ll be aware that there are already matters that emanate from this State Capture Report that are already in the court roll, like the Estina (Dairy) one. And also, billions of rands have been recovered from some of the big multinationals that were involved in State Capture.” Concerns raised over safety of whistleblowers Since the release of the State Capture Inquiry report, concerns have once again emerged about the safety of whistleblowers, who provided key testimony at the commission. This after the homes of two prominent whistleblowers, Johann van Loggerenberg who is a former South African Revenue Service (SARS) executive, and former GCIS boss Themba Maseko, were burgled following the report release. The incidents have triggered alarm among other whistleblowers who have questioned the timing of these incidents. Former head of legal services at the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa), Martha Ngoye who also testified before the commission says she feels unprotected. “We are very close to all the other whistleblowers. So, anything that happens to any one of us, affects the entire team. I think what is concerning is that these are actually coming out more now after the evidence has been given. The fact that these witnesses were not attacked at the time of giving evidence, so one does not understand what the modus operandi is of these people. It is concerning that we are faced with these attacks that are happening,” adds Ngoye. State Capture Commission Report Handover: 