Ntuthuko Shoba alleges he did not attend the funeral of the mother of his unborn child because of threats from Tshegofatso Pule’s family. Shoba is currently on trial at the high court in Johannesburg for her murder. Pule’s body was found hanging from a tree at Durban Deep in Roodepoort, west of Johannesburg in June 2020. She was murdered while 8 months pregnant. Shoba on Tuesday told the court about the last moments before Pule left his house. He says he was the one that requested an Uber for her to come to his Florida residents. They were relaxed, talked about baby items and had a meal. Shoba says Pule was on the phone most of the time. Then says he just heard her saying her ride was outside. “She was on the phone, texting or on social media. Later on she said her ride was outside. Usually I take her home or I call an Uber. When she said my ride was outside, I thought it would be an Uber, but it was a jeep. The window went down and I assumed she knew the person because they an interaction.” Pule was picked up by Muzi Malepane who says it was under Shoba’s instructions. Despite being with Malepane earlier that day, Shoba says he did not recognize the driver as he was wearing a cap and mask. “I was standing by the gate, the car was standing outside the gate, I would say 7/8 meters. She said goodbye and she got onto the front seat of the car which further convinced me that she knew the person and I walked back into the house. It was one person from what I could see. I could see that they were wearing a cap and a mask.” Shoba says he sent a text to Pule’s phone asking why she didn’t notify him she had made it home safely. He also told the court that he attempted to call her several times. He says when Pule’s family opened a missing persons case, he assisted the police by informing them about cctv cameras at his complex. Pule turned up dead on the 8th of June, four days after seeing him. WhatsApp messages When questioned why he didn’t attend the funeral, he says he stayed away due to threats from her family. “I was threatened; I was warned not to come of the funeral. I received texts as well and my circles – friends from meadowlands me to stay away because the community is looking at you because I was the last person to be with her. The aunt also called me saying you have gotten what you wanted. I think her name was Grace.” Shoba also read out some WhatsApp messages between him and Pule, which painted a picture that although there were some disagreements and quarrels, he never wanted her to abort the baby and he played a supportive role ensuring she went to the doctor and even bought her medication she might have needed. Cross examination will commence on Wednesday. Ntutukho Shoba appears in court in the video below: 