Statistics South Africa in Limpopo says it is ready to undertake a population and housing census that is taking place countrywide from midnight. The last census was conducted in 2011 and this is the fourth since the advent of democracy. Stats SA’s Limpopo Executive Manager, Nthambeleni Mukwevho says that one of their teams will be stationed at the Beitbridge border post in Musina at midnight to count those travelling. Mukwevho says, “We are ready to be at a Beitbridge Border Post to count people that will be on transit on that night. What happens is, at midnight, we have to take the snapshot of the country, so everyone that will be within the borders of South Africa will have to be counted on that night.” Mukwevho says this year’s census will showcase Stats SA’s technological advances, as it will be using a new digital data collection system. “This time around, people won’t be moving around carrying paper questionnaires. Now they will be moving around carrying a tablet. So in other words, the questionnaire is already in there. So when you are interviewed, information gets stored into that tablet, but the moment you click “Submit”, information is gone to our servers. That’s helpful because it will assist in ensuring that release of census results comes quicker, unlike when we were using paper based methods.” KwaZulu-Natal In KwaZulu-Natal, Census 2022 will kick off at the Durban beachfront, among other places, where they will be counting the homeless community. The last Census in 2011 recorded over 10-million KwaZulu-Natal residents. The country’s first digital census will allow respondents to avoid in-person contact due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Citizens can register online to provide their data digitally and by phone. The Census was due to be conducted in October 2021, but it was delayed by the pandemic. The last Census was done in 2011, and everyone in South Africa is being encouraged to participate. According to the last Census, 40% of households in the province had access to piped water inside a dwelling and 14.1% had no access to piped water. In the 2011 Census, KwaZulu-Natal had the third highest official unemployment rate in the country at 33 percent. Limpopo had the highest figure at 38.9%. VIDEO: Stats SA launched SA Census 2022 last month: