The African National Congress (ANC) Interim Provincial Committee (IPC) in the North West, says it’s more than ready to convene their provincial elective conference next month. The much-awaited conference was postponed earlier, due to the outbreak of COVID-19 and the November local government elections. The province has been operating with an interim structure, since the dissolution of the provincial executive committee led by former premier, Supra Mahumapelo, in 2018. The North West ANC Interim Provincial Committee’s main mandate since it was established three years ago, has been to forge unity and rebuild party structures in the province. This would have been followed by the provincial conference, where new leadership were to be elected. However, due to the Coronavirus pandemic, and last year’s local government elections, the process was delayed. The co-ordinator for the IPC, Hlomani Chauke, says they are now ready to host the conference. “We have already set up the date to conference to be the 18th and 29th of March. All the committees of conference have been established. In terms of structures from the ground we have given them starting this weekend to go to their pre-BBGM’s, meaning that its a process in which they verify membership of the branch.” Chauke says their priority for now is the provincial conference, and the regional conferences will follow later. “Any region that is ready will go to conference, for now our focus has been the provincial conference. So in terms of the road map we are prioritising the provincial conference and I think but regions that can be ready before that they can then have to go through if not obvious the incoming leadership will have to help facilitate that process for the regions to go to their conferences.” New Leaders Political analyst, professor Andre Duvenhage, says although contestation is still open, the determining factor in choosing new leaders will be if the province will support the CR22 faction led by President Cyril Ramaphosa or the Radical Economic Transformation grouping. There are reports that the current premier Bushy Maape, former premier Supra Mahumapelo, IPC Coordinator Hlomane Chauke and former Member of Parliament, Nono Maloi, are intending to contest leadership positions. Two of the contenders, Maape and Chauke are believe to be aligned to President Ramaphosa. Duvenhage explains. “What is interesting is that in the North West we have the strong man no one else than Mr Supra Mahumapelo. He has close ties with the so called RET group in involving people like Ace Magashule, Jacob Zuma and others. At this point in time the process is very open.” Meanwhile, the interim provincial leadership says all branches are expected to sit for general meetings and elect branch leadership and delegates to the provincial conference. ANC North West IPC ready to hold elective conference: 