Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi says the management of Hoërskool Jan Viljoen in Randfontein on the West Rand, has agreed to being assisted with change of management and matters relating to diversity. Lesufi was addressing a meeting with parents of learners at the school. The school made headlines after a video depicting fights between black and white learners went viral. Lesufi says the MEC for Social Development will work with the school. “As part of their process, they took these learners to camp to embrace the moto, Unity through Diversity, and they accept that the incidents that took place here tested them; they tested their belief to a truly non-racial school and where they are, they are requesting the department, together with the district to give them support, give them guidance in ensuring that their school becomes an exemplary school.” In the video below, Lesufi meets the parents:  CALL FOR UNITY Lesufi has called for unity at the school. Lesufi was meeting with parents following allegations of racism at the school. Last week, the school made headlines after a video depicting fights between black and white learners went viral. This led to racial tensions between parents as well. Lesufi says investigations into the allegations are under way. “The SGB is not going to investigate themselves. The district is not going to investigate themselves. I have appointed and I’m happy that the SAHRC has agreed to investigate everyone from Rocco to Roccomama or whoever in this particular school.” He has warned parents that transformation does not mean iIl-discipline. Shareen Souter’s child was one of the alleged victims. She’s sceptical if Panyaza’s visit would help resolve the matter. “Things are not resolved yet because our son is scared to go to school. As a parent, we want justice for our kids because they were treated bad. We do not know how safe he is when he’s at school.” She says she has now resolved to having the grandfather taking him to school and fetching him after. Another parent is of the view that the police have failed on their duties. “As a grandfather, I’m not happy about this because the police were there when incident happened. They were called to attend to the matter but they never took this Roco and this child to find out what was happening.” Lesufi has promised to report back to the parents. Meanwhile, the South African Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) has launched an investigation into alleged racially-motivated clashes at the school. SAHRC Commissioner Andre Gaum said: “We have decided to investigate the allegations of unfair discrimination and racism at the school as well as the voice note being circulated on social media where learners are being called the so-called “K” word.” Gaum said the Commission had an interview with the school’s principal to find out what happened and says the investigation is ongoing and more interviews would have to be conducted. SAHRC launches investigation into an alleged racially-motivated altercation at Hoërskool Jan Viljoen: 