President Cyril Ramaphosa has criticised what he called an unacceptable delay in the migration of broadcasting from analogue to digital. Ramaphosa delivered his 6th State of Nation Address (SONA) at the Cape Town City Hall on Thursday evening. He said the switch-off should be completed by the end of March. “The switch-off of analogue transmission has be completed in a number of provinces already. As I announced in the SONA last year, the other provinces will move to digital signal by the end of March 2022 and I’ve seen the joy that our people have when they gain access to digital and have the pleasure to watch television which is clear, which has many more stations and this we are going to continue doing,” says Ramaphosa. Digital migration | Government clarifies the switch from analogue to digital: Minister Ntshavheni  Ramaphosa has also announced an extension of the R350 Social Relief Distress Grant until March 2023. Since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, at least over 10 million people have been benefitting from the grant. Ramaphosa says although the grant has a serious impact on the country’s fiscus, government will extend it to cushion the poor who were vulnerable to the impact of the pandemic. Fixing of ports Government has heeded calls from the Citrus Growers Association of South Africa for ports to be urgently fixed. This week, the association urged Ramaphosa to address the sorry state of freight and rail infrastructure facing the country ahead of his State of the Nation Address. Ramaphosa says Transnet is addressing challenges at the ports in his SONA speech. He says Transnet is focused on improving operational efficiencies at the ports through procuring additional equipment and implementing new systems to reduce congestion. “Several years, the functioning of our ports has declined relative to ports in other parts of the world and particularly on our own continent as well, this constrains economic growth. The agriculture sector for example relies heavily on efficient well run ports to export tier produce to overseas markets. Fresh produce cannot wait for days or even weeks while stuck in the terminal. This hurts businesses,” says Ramaphosa. SONA 2022 | Looking at Ramaphosa’s extension of the R350 Social Relief Distress Grant: Hlongwane  Additional reporting: Ntebo Mokobo and Amina Accram