The Hawks in Free State say they will oppose the bail application of 27-year-old SABC intruder Jafta Mofokeng. Mofokeng is accused of business burglary, trespassing and malicious damage to property at the SABC offices in Bloemfontein. The incident happened last month when Mofokeng allegedly entered the building and painted graffiti on the walls before he was shot during a confrontation with the security personnel. Mofokeng appeared briefly at the magistrate’s court after he was discharged from hospital on Monday following his arrest last month. He was shot by a security officer inside the SABC building when he allegedly attacked the officer who confronted him after seeing him on CCTV camera from the control room. More security officers were called and went to investigate. Free State Hawks Spokesperson Christopher Singo says they will oppose bail at the next court appearance. “So, when he appears next week on Tuesday, we are going to oppose bail due to the seriousness of the case (and) the issues surrounding his residential address. But the information that we got is that he came from Qwaqwa. We did verify and got the information his address in Qwaqwa, he is a well-known person in Qwaqwa. People do know him, but here in Bloemfontein he is a homeless person. He does not have a place to stay. So, we are then going to oppose bail due to the seriousness of the case. You would remember SABC … these is a national key points.” The accused appeared in court barefooted. His first two court appearances were in his absence while he was being treated in hospital under police guard. Magistrate Michelle Boucher postponed the matter to next week Tuesday. “Your matter is postponed to the 15th of February 2022. (Due) to an opposed formal bail application, you would remain in custody. No bail.” Mofokeng faces multiple charges, and will remain in custody as he does not have a permanent residence in Bloemfontein. Video: SABC to tighten security at Bloemfontein offices [17 January 2022] 