The City of Tshwane says its closely monitoring the Typhoid fever outbreak in some parts of the country. The National Institute for Communicable Diseases (NICD) has confirmed cases of the disease in Gauteng, North West and the Western Cape. There is no evidence that recent cases of #typhoidFever are linked to contaminated municipal water in any parts of the country, and there is no evidence that the bacteria causing typhoid fever have recently been identified in municipal water sources anywhere in the country. pic.twitter.com/tNwiX46BrU — NICD (@nicd_sa) February 21, 2022  The City says only seven sporadic laboratory-confirmed cases were reported since December in Tshwane through the National Medical Notification system which cannot be classified as an outbreak. Spokesperson Sipho Stuurman says the city will continue monitoring the situation as a precaution. “According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), a disease outbreak is the occurrence of disease cases in excess of normal expectancy. So far, the sporadic cases in Tshwane do not meet the WHO definition to be classified as an outbreak. So far, the sporadic cases in Tshwane do not meet the WHO definition to be classified as an outbreak. The city is working with all relevant stakeholders to monitor the situation and we call for calm as there is no need to panic at the moment.” A medical expert at the NICD has called on communities to be vigilant following an outbreak of enteric fever in the North West and Western Cape. Dr Juno Thomas says the largest outbreak was in 2005 in Delmas, Mpumalanga, when more than 400 people were infected with the disease, which is also called Typhoid fever. The NICD has called on the public to ensure they follow proper hygiene practices by washing their hands regularly, sanitise properly and drink clean boiled water. This was after life-threatening bacteria was detected. The NICD has identified four cluster outbreaks of Typhoid; one in the North West and three in the Western Cape. “South Africa is endemic for Enteric fever which is also called Typhoid fever. This means cases are reported around the country every year. During 2020 and 2021 the total number of cases reported across the country did not differ from the years before, but we did notice that there was a small increase in the Western Cape and in the North West province,” says Dr Juno Thomas, NICD. According to the North West Health Department, 19 cases of enteric fever has been recorded, mainly around Klerksdorp and surrounding areas.