The owner of the Enyobeni tavern and two employees in East London, Eastern Cape, have been released after being arrested on charges related to the contravention of the Liquor Act on Wednesday. The arrests are in connection with the tragedy in which 21 young people died at the tavern more than two weeks ago. In a statement, the police say the 52-year-old owner and his two employees were arrested on charges related to the case the Eastern Cape Liquor board had opened. Police say the owner and his two employees aged 33 and 34 are facing charges related to the contravention of the Liquor Act. The tavern owner is due to appear in court on the 19th of August while the two employees were handed a fine of R2000 each.  Should they fail to pay the fine they will appear with the owner in court on the same day. Police spokesperson Thembinkosi Kinana says the investigation focussed on the alleged violation or contravention of the Eastern Cape Liquor Act by permitting or conniving for the selling or supplying of alcohol to children under the age of 18 years and for selling or supplying of alcohol to children under the age of 18 years. Kinana says the police management team reaffirms its commitment to ensuring that all the investigations around the Scenery Park tragedy are conducted in a professional and well-organized manner to ensure a successful prosecution and conviction in court. The Provincial Commissioner, Lt Gen Nomthetheleli Mene, applauded the work of the investigators and expressed gratitude for the patience shown by the families and the community. The forensic investigation into the cause of death of the 21 victims is still ongoing. Kinana says there are no new developments at this stage. Meanwhile, the Buffalo City Metro has embarked on a campaign to ensure the safety of patrons at establishments where alcohol is sold. The Metro is also calling on these establishments to use strict entry requirements and even insist on IDs from patrons to avoid underage drinking. More details in the report below: ;