Economic Freedom Freedom (EFF) leader, Julius Malema, has told party members that the party will establish a labour union. Malema was speaking at the May Day Rally in Mhluzi Middelburg in Mpumalanga. The Themba Senamela stadium in Mhluzi was a sea of red as EFF members came in large numbers for the Worker’s Day celebrations and Malema announced that an EFF union is on the cards. The supporters had mixed views on celebrating the day, saying most labourers are being exploited. The red berets are hoping their party will establish a trade union to deal with this. They say an organised labour structure under the EFF will win the fight against injustice in the workplace. Most supporters were happy to be celebrating Worker’s Day, but added that more needs to be done to improve the lives of employees. “We are not that happy with celebration as workers. We are losing jobs, quality unions are no longer there. We hope the EFF will establish a labour union just like they establish a labour desk.” “What we are hoping are job opportunities, fees must fall as well.” MALEMA: We are having a Labour Desk because we are preparing to have an EFF union. The union of the EFF is inevitable. #EFFMayDayRally — Economic Freedom Fighters (@EFFSouthAfrica) May 1, 2022   Meanwhile, EFF leader says existing unions have taken the side of the employer and this has left a vacuum. He says the aim of the union is to help workers in every sector. “We are preparing to have a union. Every time the eff intervenes they take us to court. We are fighting whether we are a union or not as long as black people are working.” Malema used the rally to speak out against attacks on migrants from other African countries, lambasting xenophobic behaviours within communities. He said this is a result of self-hate by black South Africans. He reiterated the EFF’s support for a borderless Africa. [MUST WATCH]: CIC @Julius_S_Malema calling on Fighters to protect the African continent and her people. We must love one another and see each other when we look at each other. #EFFMayDayRally pic.twitter.com/yNAHOZDNVc — Economic Freedom Fighters (@EFFSouthAfrica) May 1, 2022  “Stop the hate of black people, love each other, you can take your vote if you hate me for loving black people. I don’t want to be a president for people who don’t love black people…” The party is pushing to attract one million members by December this year. [In Pictures]: CIC @Julius_S_Malema addressing the #EFFMayDayRally in Mpumalanga. The EFF will continue to heighten the protection of workers. pic.twitter.com/qtvzDkXj3m — Economic Freedom Fighters (@EFFSouthAfrica) May 1, 2022 