The African National Congress (ANC) National Chairperson, Gwede Mantashe, has urged delegates to the Eastern Cape Elective conference to focus on policy discussions rather than be obsessed with leadership. Delegates are sharply divided on who should lead the province for the next four years. It’s a two horse race between the provincial convener Oscar Mabuyane and his former treasurer Babalo Madikizela. Mantashe says their supporters must not see themselves as enemies as they all have to work together to build the ANC beyond the conference. ANC National Chairperson Gwede Mantashe delivered the keynote address on behalf of the National Executive Committee. Video | ANC Eastern Cape elective conference: ANC National Chairperson Gwede Mantashe addresses delegates  Refrain from singing divisive and factional songs One of the contenders and convener of the ANC in the Eastern Cape, Oscar Mabuyane, has called on delegates to refrain from singing divisive and factional songs. The much anticipated 9th ANC Eastern Cape Elective conference is taking place on Saturday. Mabuyane is vying for the position of provincial chair with Babalo Madikizela. The two groups have names and songs that  Mabauyane says are not in keeping with the ANC’s unity and renewal project Outcome in the hands on of the voting delegates: Qoboshiyane The ANC’a Mlibo Qoboshiyane, says the outcome of the ANC provincial conference lies in the hands of the voting delegates. Qoboshiyane, Babalo Madikizela and Oscar Mabuyane are vying for the position of Chairperson. Qoboshiyane says he has met supporters of both Madikizela and Mabuyane to chart a way forward. “I have met some of the leaders. They came to us and they say even in our groups, there are people that are believing strongly that you must emerge also.We are going to be guided by traditional delegates to say which one is the best,”says Qoboshiyane . Day 2 of the ANC’s Eastern Cape elective conference: <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> Several National Executive Committee members are also deployed in the province to help support and ensure a successful conference. Earlier, the Provincial Task Team Convener Oscar Mabuyane, who is squaring up with his former Treasurer Babalo Madikizela, said they are working ahead to avoid the repeat of violence. He also warned against some national leaders coming in the Eastern Cape to sow divisions for their own selfish interests. Mabuyane, has reassured delegates that security has been tightened as the registration process for the party’s ninth elective conference commences on Friday. Video: ANC Eastern Cape elective conference briefing [ 7 May 2022]  Video: SABC News speaks to a political analyst about the ANC elective conference in the Eastern Cape