Real Madrid’s LaLiga title celebrations were subdued compared to other occasions, due to the Champions League semi-final clash with Manchester City on Wednesday when they bid to overturn a one-goal deficit after losing the first leg 4-3 in England. Real lifted the trophy, carried it around the stadium and went on a two-mile open bus parade from Santiago Bernabeu to the city’s central Cibeles fountain, where they joined about 150,000 jubilant fans for a little less than two hours. By 9pm, however, all the players had gone. Real’s usually low-profile coach Carlo Ancelotti was notably one of the more animated participants in the celebrations. Videos and photos of the Italian dancing and singing with young Brazilians Vinicius Jr. and Eder Militao went viral, including one of Ancelotti wearing sunglasses and smoking a cigar. “The boss,” Vinicius wrote on Instagram. “We are professionals. Tonight we all celebrate together. Tomorrow we train and on Wednesday we have another important game,” Ancelotti said. Is it the end of the line for Simeone? With only one win in the last four matches, last year’s champions Atletico Madrid are in danger of finishing outside the top four and missing out on the Champions League next season. Atleti slumped to 2-0 defeat at Bilbao and remained fourth on 61 points, only four points ahead of fifth-placed Real Betis who have a game in hand and visit Getafe on Monday. After the Champions League quarter-final loss to Manchester City, coach Diego Simeone was already under fire from pundits and fans alike. Without in-form forward Joao Felix for the rest of the campaign due to a leg injury, they have a tough run-in with games against champions Real Madrid, third-placed Sevilla and sixth-placed Sociedad. Was Ferran Torres worth the investment? Barcelona’s revival, during which they went 15 games unbeaten, is over and they lost three consecutive home games for the first time in the club’s history before Sunday’s 2-1 win over Real Mallorca. Forward Ferran Torres has come under scrutiny after failing to impress since his January arrival for 55 million euros from Manchester City. He has scored seven goals and contributed six assists in 21 games but has wasted many good opportunities, profligacy that was again on display in the victory over Mallorca.