The Eswatini opposition party People’s United Democratic Movement (Pudemo) has suspended its member Philemon Lukhele who is implicated in the case of Hillary Gardee. Lukhele, Sipho Mkhwatshwa and Albert Gama are facing charges following the murder of Hillary 28, who is the daughter of the former Economic Freedom Fighter (EFF) secretary general Godrich Gardee. Pudemo suspends Lukhele membership after being linked to the murder of Hillary Gardee: <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> They appeared before the Mbombela Magistrates Court on Monday and the matter was postponed to June 2022. One of the suspects is Lukhele from the Kingdom of Eswatini, a member of Pudemo –  Eswatini’s pro-democracy opposition party. Lukhele’s membership in the party has been suspended. One of the suspects is Lukhele from the Kingdom of Eswatini who is a member of Pudemo, the pro-democracy opposition party from Eswatini. The party has suspended Lukhele’s membership. Secretary general of Pudemo, Wandile Dludlu expresses condolences to the Gardee family following the incident. “We can only give space and opportunity to all investigation team and law enforcement agencies which are engaged in this case with the speed it deserves and we are following we hope the truth will come out and motive of this heinous crime that Pudemo condemns with strongest terms even it’s coming from our own.” More arrests linked to Hillary Gardee’s murder:
<span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> The EFF says it won’t allow this horrific incident to derail their Pan-African approach and has been frank in sympathising with the struggle of the people of eSwatini against King Mswati III’s rule. EFF spokesperson, Sinawo Tambo says, “What we must commend is the swift action that Pudemo has taken to suspend Lukhele.  this has nothing to do with our position in Africa we have long illustrated that crime is a crime, it doesn’t have a nationality and we are viewing this situation as such. We won’t allow opportunists and xenophobes who are determined to undermine EFF’s pan-African approach and we are unshaken.” Lukhele also has a relationship with the ANC and he’s working in the office of the Chief Whip in the Mpumalanga legislature. However, attempts to get the ANC’s reaction from the national level were not successful. Three men accused of murdering Hillary Gardee abandon bail: The three men accused of murdering Hillary Gardee have abandoned their bail application. Lawrence Mkhatshwa, Philemon Lukhele and Mduduzi Gama, have been charged with killing the daughter of former EFF Secretary General, Godrich Gardee.#MorningLive #SABCNews pic.twitter.com/xse06LIPPw — MorningLiveSABC (@MorningLiveSABC) May 10, 2022 