Tourism Minister, Lindiwe Sisulu, is due to open Africa’s Travel Indaba in Durban on Tuesday. It is the largest tourism expo on the continent. It is the first time since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic more than two years ago, that the event is taking place in person. About 4000 delegates are expected to attend. The indaba is expected to generate around R 72.5 million income for the city’s economy. This year’s indaba will focus – among other things, on recovery from the pandemic, opportunities to combine business and leisure tourism, and enhancing intra-African travel and tourism. Minister of Tourism, Honourable Lindiwe Sisulu has arrived at Africa’s Travel Indaba 2022!
The Minister will officially open the Trade Floor, tomorrow 3 May 2022. #TravelIndaba22 #AfricaMovesYou @LindiweSisuluSA @Tourism_gov_za pic.twitter.com/Xeb18i4ILr — SA Travel Trade (@SATravelTrade) May 2, 2022  Minister announces fund to assist tourism industry after heavy floods Tourism Minister Lindiwe Sisulu has announced a solidarity relief fund to revive the tourism industry after the recent floods in KwaZulu-Natal and other affected provinces across the country. The flood disaster in KwaZulu-Natal has left a trail of damage – with the tourism sector also being hit hard. The floods have claimed the lives of over 400 people and left several others injured and homeless. Sisulu who has just returned from an international tourism Indaba in Philippines addressed the media in Durban. “Bulk of that will be coming from cutting our own budget and Minister of Finance will make use of that in cutting what has been allocated to us to create the Solidarity Fund. So we have clear guidelines in place in which people will claim from the Solidarity Fund. But specifically in relation with tourism, we had relations with COVID – we were allowed by government to create what was called Tourism Recovery Fund.” Reconstruction of key infrastructure is expected to start after the mop-up operations are completed. It has been described as the worst flood disaster in the province’s history and far more severe than the floods of 1987 which left 60 people dead. supplies and water tankers reach areas where repairs are ongoing. Tourism Minister Lindiwe Sisulu says her department will assist businesses affected: 