Arts and Culture Minister Nathi Mthethwa says leaders should be at the forefront in tackling divisions among Africans. The Minister’s statement comes as the country has seen an anti-migrant sentiment rise in areas like Diepsloot. Mthethwa addressed the launch of the Africa month in Midrand, north of Johannesburg. May is special in Africa, it saw the formation of the Organisation of African Unity in the 60s which led anti-colonial struggle and it was later succeeded by the African Union in 2002. A colourful affair with drums, trumpets and other tuneful instruments. Umoja Africa Carnival and Parade has been held to unify Africans from all over the continent and elsewhere. The South African government is using such events to end xenophobia and conduct that’s contrary to Pan Africanism. AFRICA MONTH LAUNCH 2022
It is our considered view that there is a dire need to have a world-wide Africa based digital platform that houses all online creative arts, copyright, patents & sporting platforms.#AfricaMonth #AfricaMoveMore pic.twitter.com/uzEynjheWR — Department of Sport, Arts and Culture (@SportArtsCultur) May 9, 2022  Sports, Arts and Culture Minister Nathi Mthethwa,” “Remember we are talking about people here who have been colonised for centuries and part of colonisation was to despise themselves. It’s our task, it’s our duty to fight anything which seems to be dividing our people. There will always be problems everywhere, you won’t say you have overcome problems.” Some diplomats who attended the launch such as Eritrea ambassador Salih Omar Abdu says security challenges continue to hamper Africa’s development goals. “Security and its challenges remain multifaceted and pose threat to the stability of the continent. There are interrelated and hampering state capacity and development.” Africans say unity is key. “We can be united so that we fight this thing of fighting one another because we are one.” “Don’t kill each other, we are almost together.” “It means me celebrating the meaning of what Africa has brought itself to the stage where we are, it’s about culture.” Another critical issue the minister raised is around food security in Africa saying with the resources we have in our disposal, the issue of hunger should be dealt with decisively. 