Hillary Gardee, the late daughter of the former Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) Secretary-General Godrich Gardee, has been described as a selfless, compassionate and loving person. Her funeral service was held on Saturday  in Mbombela, Mpumalanga. She was abducted and killed last week. Her body was found in a timber plantation a few kilometres outside Mbombela. One of the family members, Mandisa Mbatha read her obituary. “Like most South African citizens, Hillary was always touched by the material conditions of our people, understanding the social fabric of this country with deep appreciation for morality, human rights and the general principles of Ubuntu among all South African citizens, especially the oppressed and downtrodden masses. Hillary adopted and cared for a three-year-old child. She looked after the child as if she were her own – an inspiring act for a woman of such a young age.”   Godrich Gardee pays tribute to his daughter EFF Head of the International Desk Commissar  paid tribute to his daughter. [MUST WATCH 1/4]: EFF Head of the International Desk Commissar @GardeeGodrich paying tribute to his daughter Hillary Gardee. The former SG recalls the state in which he found the lifeless body of his daughter. #RIPHillaryGardee pic.twitter.com/dndXEq8Fcs — Economic Freedom Fighters (@EFFSouthAfrica) May 7, 2022   One suspect arrested in connection of her murder Mpumalanga police have arrested a suspect in connection with the killing of  Hillary Gardee. The announcement was made by Mpumalanga Police Provincial Commissioner Lieutenant General Semakaleng Manamela on Friday evening. Manamela says the suspect was arrested in Schoemansdal near the Eswatini border. “We are cracking this case and we are there. We are doing what is right and we are going to be getting all the information to ensure that more arrests will be made possible. The verification of information is precise and we are sure of what we are doing. The suspect right now that we are having in our hands is the correct suspect.”  Malema pays tribute to Hillary Gardee EFF leader Julius Malema has paid an emotional tribute to the daughter of the former party Secretary General. Malema, who was speaking at the funeral service in Mbombela, has strongly criticised continued attacks on women in South Africa and assured the Gardee family that the party stands with the family as they mourn Hillary.   Hillary Gardee was was also tortured: Mhaule Deputy Minister of Basic Education Reginah Mhaule, who is also related to the Gardee family, says Hillary Gardee was not only shot and killed, but she was also tortured. She was speaking on behalf of the family and relatives at the funeral. Mhaule also commended the police for arresting a 39-year-old man in connection with her murder. “We were all concerned about the child and we see the child complete wearing her pants. We thought the bruises were only on the face. Little did we know is that the whole body is bruised and the marks of the boots are visible and we saw that when we at the mortuary. And during the postmortem, we stayed there the whole day because that is when they discovered that there is a bullet shot at the back of the head,” says Mhaule.  Suspect to appear in court on Monday: Cele Police Minister Bheki Cele says more suspects are still being investigated in the Hillary Gardee murder case. Cele confirmed that the suspect arrested will appear in court on Monday. Cele was speaking at the funeral service of Hillary Gardee at the Church on the Hill in Kamagugu in Mbombela. Cele says no stone will be left unturned to catch all the perpetrators and calls on anyone who has information to report to the police.  Commissar Dr @MbuyiseniNdlozi leading the celebration of Hillary Gardee’s life as we bid her farewell. #RIPHillaryGardee pic.twitter.com/XEEGs3fUl0 — Economic Freedom Fighters (@EFFSouthAfrica) May 7, 2022   