Mpumalanga residents and music lovers are being given a chance to experience the life and times of music legend Ray “Chikapa” Phiri. The Ray Phiri Arts Institute and Toda Holding led by the late singer’s widow are hosting the exhibition at the Mbombela Arts Gallery. The exhibition showcases the late Stimela’s band member’s work through photography and couture from his personal and public archive. The melody and many others dished by the Afro-Fusion band Stimela remain favourite to most music lovers around the world. The band was founded in the 70s by Ray Phiri and other members that included Isaac Mtshali, Thabo Lloyd Lelosa, and Jabu Sibumbe, initially calling themselves the Cannibals. Phiri, the self-taught guitarist died five years ago. He was known for his extraordinary dance moves while performing. The Dancing Mantis: Ray ‘Chikapa’ Phiri, Steam Train of Memories & Spirits, exhibition:

His widow, Rabelani Phiri says the initiative seeks not only to showcase Phiri’s life but also to inspire upcoming artists to follow in his footsteps. “It’s about building a meaningful legacy, politically, from an economic point of view. Part of the visionary work behind this thing is to be able to transfer skills that can be applied from an artistic point of view, economically to be able to sell creative work to change the socio-economic narrative of us as black people.” Curator of the exhibition, Bongani Madondo says he couldn’t miss an opportunity to be part of this life-changing experience. “I felt that the spirit of Ray Phiri needed this kind of recognition. Not only him, Ray Phiri, Hugh Masekela, Busi Mhlongo, Brenda Fassie, Nelsi Sedibe those who have passed and those who are still here. I think we need new ways of recognising them beyond the heritage realm.” A family friend who also contributed to Phiri’s instrumental knowledge, Elias Phiri, believes the initiative will unearth more music greats. “This initiative of exposing Ray to the musical world, I applaud and praise whoever came up with the idea because in Mpumalanga we did not have the guts to start something that will be an inspiration to the nation. I wish this to continue and tomorrow, we will see a big institute where people will raise their talents, live better, and have a future that is multiplied by way of rewards.” The month-long exhibition on the life and times of Ray Phiri will see the public and school children visiting the gallery and learn more about the late international renowned singer.