The Randburg Magistrates Court will hear the bail application of the seven men accused of killing Zimbabwean national Elvis Nyathi on Thursday. The group is accused of killing Nyathi last month in Diepsloot, Johannesburg, during protests against crime in the area. The state argued that if the accused were released on bail, they would interfere with the case by intimidating witnesses, endangering the community, tampering with evidence, and evading trial. After weeks of postponement, their bail application resumed today. The men face 6 offences of premeditated murder and related charges. There is also concern that they may evade trial should they be released. Elvis Nyathi Case I 7 murder accused apply for bail at the Randburg Magistrates’ court
<span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span>  According to one of the accused in the Nyathi murder case, police did not explain why he was arrested. The 41-year-old father of two and six other accused are applying for bail in the Randburg Magistrate’s Court in Johannesburg. Nyathi, a Zimbabwean national, was beaten and burnt to death in Diepsloot north of Johannesburg earlier this month. The seven men are facing charges of murder, attempted murder, kidnapping, assault, robbery and extortion. Accused number one says he intends to plead not guilty as he was not involved in any criminal acts on the day Elvis Nyathi was killed. He says he is well-known in the community as he is active in political structures and is a CPF member. He says on April 7, 2022, he was attending a community meeting addressed by the Minister of Police at Diepsloot police station. He claims that police arrived at his house late one night over the Easter weekend and arrested him without explaining why. He denies the charges against him, claiming he has a strong alibi proving he was at home during the mob act. The video below reports on the visit by Gauteng Premier David Makhura :

Additional Reporting: Pearl Magubane