Democratic Alliance (DA) leader, John Steenhuisen says Ukraine is becoming the world’s new frontier for freedom. He is on a six-day tour across parts of Ukraine to witness, first-hand, the effects of Russia’s invasion of the country. Steenhuisen posted a video to social media, after arriving on the outskirts of the capital, Kyiv. “We have just arrived on the outskirts of Kyiv after spending the day travelling from Lviv. We are witnessing the destruction and so many civilians and the whole way down the road there were Russian tanks blowing up and destroying. These are the actions of war raging here. It is a war for freedom. Ukraine has now become the new frontier for freedom in the world – rising up against tyranny and imperialism.” I have today arrived in the city of Lviv in Western Ukraine from where I will embark on a six-day tour of various parts of Ukraine – mostly around the capital, Kiev – to ascertain for myself the situation in a country that has been under siege from the Russian army. pic.twitter.com/RvTDtyaeAK — John Steenhuisen MP (@jsteenhuisen) May 1, 2022  Today, DA Leader, @jsteenhuisen arrived in the city of Lviv in Western Ukraine from where he will embark on a six-day tour of various parts of Ukraine to see, first-hand, the effects of the Russian invasion and the ongoing occupation of parts of Ukraine.#JohnVisitsUkraine pic.twitter.com/MIAN366Yos — Democratic Alliance (@Our_DA) May 1, 2022  DA Leader, @jsteenhuisen, has now arrived in Kyiv the capital of Ukraine. The Russian invasion of Ukraine is devastating, innocent people are being attacked and killed. The effects of this war will be felt by many globally and in SA as the cost of living continues to rise. pic.twitter.com/rXvfvaJTV6 — Democratic Alliance (@Our_DA) May 2, 2022     Ukraine’s civilian evacuation from besieged Mariupol stalls Meanwhile, efforts to evacuate more civilians from the devastated Ukrainian port city of Mariupol ran into delays on Monday and hundreds of people remained trapped in the Azovstal steel works, the last stronghold of resistance to the Russian siege. It was not clear what was causing the hold-up of a convoy made up of civilians from the city itself. Russian forces had on Sunday resumed shelling the steel works after an earlier convoy of buses had successfully left from that location, an aide to the mayor said. The plight of civilians trapped in Mariupol, which endured weeks of bombardment before Russian forces captured most of it, has been a focus of humanitarian concern as the war has ground on into a third month. Thousands are believed to have been killed and those still stuck in the besieged Azovstal complex, whose network of bunkers and tunnels has provided shelter, were running out of water, food and medicine. “The situation has become a sign of a real humanitarian catastrophe,” Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said. On other fronts, towns in eastern Ukraine were coming under intense Russian bombardment, a regional governor said. Putin warns of retaliation to any interference in Ukraine: A Russian rocket strike hit a main bridge across the Dniester estuary just west of the port city of Odesa in southwest Ukraine, authorities said. EU energy ministers were due to hold emergency talks in Brussels on Moscow’s demand that European buyers pay for Russian gas in roubles or face their supply being cut off. While the EU has imposed heavy economic sanctions on Russia in response to its invasion of Ukraine, the issue of Russian energy supplies has posed a dilemma that threatens to crack the united front. Additional report by Reuters