The family of Hillary Gardee says postmortem results have confirmed that she had a gunshot wound to the head. Hillary Gardee was the daughter of the Economic Freedom Fighters’ former Secretary-General , Godrich Gardee. The 28 year old went missing on Friday, and her body was found on the Lydenburg Road just outside Mbombela, Mpumalanga on Tuesday. Earlier today, the EFF leadership visited the Gardee family. Condolences continue to pour in. The brutal killing of Hillary Gardee has sent shockwaves through Mbombela. Gardee’s family says police were not thorough in their investigations. Post-mortem results confirm a bullet wound at the back of Hillary Gardee’s head: Sinawo Thambo  Police investigate murder of Gardee’s daughter:  They say they have little hope that a suspect will be apprehended within 72 hours, as promised by the Police Minister Bheki Cele. Tambo says: “As the family, we have received an update after the post-mortem which has indicated that our daughter Hillary Gardee was shot at the back of her head, they extracted the bullet at the back of her head. That is shocking to us that the bullet was not located by the South African police at the crime scene,
they removed her body from the scene without recreating the shooting, whether she as running, walking, we cannot have that, we cannot have any appreciation of that now.” EFF President Julius Malema, his deputy Floyd Shivambu and the former national Chairperson Dali Mpofu also visited the family. EFF visits Godrich Gardee’s family in Mbombela: Malema promised EFF supporters that Gardee’s killers will be found. “We have committed to the family to find these killers. We have committed to Bheki Cele as well that he must find them before we find them, because if we find them before him, we cant give a guarantee as to what is going to happen. We have deployed all manner of resources on the ground to look for this criminal” Funeral arrangements are yet to be made. Police have assembled a team of experts to investigate the case.