The month of May holds a special place in the hearts of Africans. In 1963 Organisation of African Unity (OAU)  was formed to fight against colonial struggle. It was succeeded by African Union to accelerate economic integration and other key priorities on the continent. Africa still has a long way to go to achieve its aspirations. It has been turbulent decades as Africans have endured hardship largely due to slavery and colonialism among other challenges. May is the special month on the continent in 1963, the Organisation of African Unity was formed to promote political and economic integration. At the time the elephant in the room was the eradication of colonialism across the continent. It was not an easy time for South Africa as it was still fiercely fighting against apartheid regime. “We are very confident of the new South Africa and it will bring dynamism to the operations of the OAU. We are also confident the new South Africa will be able to respond effectively to the aspirations of its people and we should not expect help from outside and we should have prosperity,” said former Secretary-General Salim Ahmed Salim. OAU did not escape wrath as it was perceived in some quarters as a dictators’ club. It was not effective in dealing with some of the critical challenges facing the continent. South Africa was once again at the forefront in the formation of the African Union, to accelerate the political and economic integration in Africa. Former President Thabo Mbeki was AU’s first chairperson and the event was held in the coastal city of Durban. “I am proud that Africa is taking the giant step today during the year where the ANC celebrated its 90th anniversary, this is a country where we saw the fighting for pan africanism and led our people to liberation and gave birth to Nkosisikelela Africa, God bless Africa.” The late former Kenyan President, Arap Moi called on the AU to mobilise its resources and respond effectively to continental challenges. “The setting up of the structures and other institutions will urgently require us substantial financial respources and OAU was constrained by cumulative arrears and this caused problems of implementation.” As AU will turn 20 years in 2022, there are still a myriad of challenges around peace and security and the continent has once again seen a number of coups in West Africa pointing clearly that there is still a long way to go to have a peaceful, secured, and prosperous Africa.