CEO of Airports Company South Africa (ACSA), Mpumi Mpofu says the Central Energy Fund will develop a plan to address future energy supply security. ACSA has detailed the challenges of jet fuel at OR Tambo International Airport amid fears of a shortage. Mpofu claims that fuel prices have doubled since the beginning of Russia’s incursion into Ukraine, but that refinery constraints are being addressed. Mpofu, along with other executives from various organisations involved in the jet fuel value chain, addressed a media briefing in Kempton Park on Monday. Mpofu says, “The overall responsibility of providing fuel security lies with the minerals and energy departments for the country. The CEF which we have requested to join the intervention will be able to invoke available legislative instruments to ensure energy security and provide an additional 1.5 million litres of jet fuel in the event that the mismatch of supply and demand is experienced by an airline. “In the event that we face challenges the CEF confirms that it will issue directives to supply us for what is known as jet fuel swap to ensure supply to all airlines,” Mpofu adds. ACSA briefs media on reports of jet fuel shortages:  ‘SA’s jet fuel supply stable’ ACSA has confirmed that the country’s jet fuel supply is currently stable. Mpofu says they currently have enough jet fuel for three days supply for Johannesburg’s OR Tambo Airport and the situation is unlikely to deteriorate further. “Members of the various institutions represented here met at OR Tambo International airport to develop a plan to mitigate the challenges to jet fuel supply which previously led to airline flight cancelations and others tinkering and refuelling at other ACSA airports and Windhoek outside the country. ACSA and its strategic fuel forum partners confirm has decreased but is stable.” ACSA announced last month that it was facing jet fuel supply constraints as a result of floods in KwaZulu Natal, which destroyed rail infrastructure and caused logistical issues. VIDEO: Some jet fuel suppliers are still not able to guarantee supplies to their customers: 
<span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span>