Mpumalanga police have arrested a suspect in connection with the killing of Hillary Gardee. The daughter of the former Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) Secretary-General, Godrich Gardee, was reported missing last Friday. She was found dead earlier this week on Lydenburg road, outside Mbombela. Mpumalanga Police Provincial Commissioner, Lieutenant-General Semakaleng Manamela, says a suspect has been arrested in Schoemansdal, near the Eswatini border. “We are cracking this case and we are there. We are doing what is right and we are going to be getting every information to ensure that if possible more arrests. The verification of information precise and we are sure of what we are doing. The suspect right now that we are having in our hands is the correct suspect,” Manamela.  The funeral service for 28-year-old Hillary Gardee will be held on Saturday  in Mbombela, Mpumalanga. [BREAKING NEWS]: Lt- General Semakaleng Manamela giving an update on the breakthrough made on the murder of Hillary Gardee. #RIPHillaryGardee pic.twitter.com/jzYRc1cX7G — Economic Freedom Fighters (@EFFSouthAfrica) May 6, 2022  Meanwhile, the Gardee family has welcomed the arrest. However, Family Spokesperson, Sinawo Thambo says the family is struggling to find closure.  “We must be able to commend and compliment and applaud the hard work that police been doing. So, they have informed us that they are unable to divulge the identity of the suspect at this current time, because we must wait for the suspect to charged and to appear in court. We are going to respect this and let the law run its course. But I must convey one message with the public which the father of the late Hillary Gardee has is that he would have loved to have one opportunity to even if it is to speak through the holding cell or speak through a window and ask this individual why did he kill their daughter.” [WATCH]: EFF and Gardee family spokesperson says the family welcomes the arrest of the suspect in the murder case of Hillary Gardee and the police meeting their own target. #RIPHillaryGardee pic.twitter.com/pvtTuOQdDd — Economic Freedom Fighters (@EFFSouthAfrica) May 6, 2022 