Provincial Task Team member of the African National Congress (ANC) in the Eastern Cape, Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams, says they don’t foresee further delays affecting the 9th provincial elective conference. The conference has been extended to Monday due to delays on Saturday. Some members of the W.B Rubusana region unsuccessfully tried to obtain a court interdict preventing some of the delegates of the region to participate in the voting process. Video: ANC’s Eastern Cape elective conference continues on Sunday  The application was struck off the roll with costs. On Sunday, delegates will be dealing with policy issues, adoption of credentials and the election of the new provincial leadership. Ndabeni-Abrahams is calling for calm. “We call on all delegates to be calm, engage on whatever they engage on, actually we have taken to deal with credentials in terms of cleaning up wherein the secretary of regions were involved themselves. I don’t think there is much that will come up, but we want to appeal to everyone that let the ANC proceed with its work today,” says Ndabeni-Abrahams. Video: ANC’s Eastern Cape elective conference continues: Samkele Maseko On Saturday, the high court in East London dismissed with costs an urgent application that sought to recuse some branch delegates of the Dr W B Rubusana region from participating in the ANC’s provincial conference in East London. The application was brought by Ondela Sokoman, a member of the region. Sokomani’s legal team argued that about 30 branches are not eligible to vote in the conference since there is a pending court judgement on allegations of membership manipulation which took place at branch general meetings in this region. Judge Justin Laing said there was no urgency in the matter and the application was done in a hasty manner. Video: ANC Eastern Cape Conference court proceedings  @MYANC National Chairperson Comrade @GwedeMantashe1 addressing the 9th Provincial Conference in Eastern Cape Province, East London. #ANCEC2022 pic.twitter.com/nyBj2or10T — African National Congress (@MYANC) May 7, 2022 